 13900 Riverport Drive, Maryland Heights, MO 63043 | 1.888.586.3747 lumeris.com June 16, 2025 Stephanie Carlton Deputy Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Steven Posnack Acting Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy Acting National Coordinator for Health IT U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Re: Request for Information on the Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS -0042 -NC) Dear Deputy Administrator Carlton and Acting Assistant Secretary Posnack: Lumeris appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Service’s (CMS) Request for Information on the Health Technology Ecosystem . Lumeris supports CMS’ strategic vision and its core principles of person -centered care through its operation of Essence Healthcare’s Medicare Advantage plans, partnership with provider groups in the Accountable Care Organization (ACO) Realizing Equity, Access, and Community Health (REACH) model, and as a leader in value -based care solutions and technologies for provider systems. As an organization, Lumeris is dedicated to the idea that radical chan ge in health outcomes and performance occurs by placing patients at the center of care and decisioning, support by committed provider, payers, and technologies moving synergistically toward the goal of improving and maintaining a patient’s health. Our comm itment to our Essence members is the same – high quality care can be accessible and affordable to all beneficiaries when supported by value -based agreements that drive both quality outcome measures and cost management. As a health care solutions company, we are dedicated to deploying and leveraging technology solutions to improve health outcomes and optimize provider practices. Our Lumeris Perform ™ technology suite – which incorporates Lumeris Realize ™ (data transformation, analytics, and insights), Lumeris Engage ™ (care orchestration and patient engagement), and Lumeris Protect ™ (health plan operations and management) – work in concert to enable better clinical decision making through data, improve patient outcomes through m eaningful AI -driven engagement and health co -management between patient and provider, and drive the highest quality outcomes for consumers through health plan performance. As an industry leader in and champion of the value -based care initiative, our primar y focus resides in developing tools to drive health outcomes, leveraging over a decade of experience as a collaborative payer through our operation of Essence Healthcare, a payer first envisioned by providers. With the advent of AI solutions in the health care industry, Lumeris is once again leading the way with the development of Tom ™, an AI -powered Care Team Member designed to transform primary care for patients, clinicians, and health systems. This offering is the result of almost two decades of technology, data, and process insight honed through Lumeris’ legacy of clinical outcomes optimization , and is a start to addressing the 2 -billion -hour primary care shortage head -on. Unlike traditional analytics -based 
 ©2025 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 2 systems that merely inform care teams and increase their workloads, Tom acts. Operating 24/7 within primary care workflows, Tom autonomously executes next -best actions, including scheduling screenings and appointments, monitoring medication adherence, cond ucting post -discharge outreach, and sharing patient education – all while working within a shared care plan and escalating issues when necessary. This allows care teams to significantly expand their capacity to serve more patients with more comprehensive s ervices. We appreciate CMS’ continued efforts to elicit the feedback from key industry stakeholders to better understand the current state of the healthcare technology ecosystem . As the industry continues to explore how to best address key issues like a 2 -billion -hour primary care shortage, it is essential that the regulatory landscape continue to provide common sense guardrails while promoting and empowering innovation and the ad option of technological solutions to these problems. Below is the feedback we collected from key stakeholder within Lumeris, which is informed by our experiences within the payer, physician enablement, accountable care , and technology spaces. Responses to RFI Questions VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital health management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with their patients? What are the current obstacles preventin g broader digital product adoption for patients in ACOs? One of the greatest hurdles is the pace of change in regulations and the lift required to put the supporting technology in place to enable providers to comply with new regulations. For example, a small practice provider may be on a n electronic medical record ( EMR ) that is Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology ( ONC ) compliant, but that does not include functionality enabled in the latest version of that EMR offered . As an unintended consequence, t hat provider may not be able to participate in certain programs , such as the previous collection of social determinants of health (SDOH) data collection in ACO REACH, due to having not had the reso urces to continue to upgrade their EMR to the most current version . Providers are placed in a difficult position where they must constantly go through costly upgrade cycles with their vendors or miss out on participation in innovative programs like REACH and MSSP. We are highly concerned that t he 100% Certified EHR Technology ( CEHRT ) requirement will only serve as an aggravating factor for this problem, particularly among rural and small independent practices. CEHRT compliance in and of itself does not nece ssarily mean it will enable all the functionality needed to enable a provider to be successful in an AAPM. Another concern this raises is the amount of data CMS now expects a provider to collect and share with CMS. This once again puts provider s in a never -ending upgrade cycle with the EMR vendor in order to comply with federal regulations. While the impact of this issue may not be as significant, or exist, for large health systems, it is a primary hurdle for both small and rural independent practices , an example of the forces driving consolidation in healthcare , and ultimately reducing patient choice . If CMS intends 
 ©2025 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 3 to continue to rapidly cycle on data collection requirements, it needs to seriously consider subsidizing EMR upgrades or creating regulations to somehow lower the cost burden of the EMR upgrade cycle. To encourage broader adoption, CMS and Center for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation ( CMMI ) could implement aligned incentives that reward investment in these capabilities while reducing performance risk for early adopters – similar to MSSP ACOs and early adopters of Electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQM ) reporting. Incentives could include preferential quality scoring and/or benchmarking treatment for participants that demonstrate active use of certified digital tools. CMS could apply a more favorable qua lity performance benchmark or allow partial credit toward quality measures when digital solutions are used to close care gaps or support care transitions, recognizing the added infrastructure and workflow integration required. Another consideration would be allowing ACOs to use prepaid shared savings for digital health adoption investment and allow exemptions from other requirements around how those prepaid savings dollars are used. VB-4. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value -based care arrangements? By far the most significant challenge thus far with our experiences in ACO REACH and MSSP has been when a beneficiary opts out of data sharing. It is next to impossible to effectively manage a beneficiary without access to claims data. While we acknowledge the statutory requirements around this, we would encourage CMS to consider potential solutions to this barrier – including either remov ing these beneficiaries from the programs so the ACOs are held harmless, or require that the data be shared if the beneficiary is in the program as a part of participation. Coupled with access to claims data is EMR access, another critical component of providing comprehensive care. At times, the EMR vendor will limit an ACO employees' access within the EMR , which in turn prevents the ACO from performing critical functions in a timely manner. We would encourage CMS to consider methods for encouraging or requiring EMR vendors to open access based on the preferences of the entities themselves . VB-7. How can technology requirements for APMs, established through CEHRT or other pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility? We highly recommend that CMS clearly define a baseline set of capabilities (data interop erability , clinical decision support, patient engagement, etc.) to align expectations across CMS and CMMI programs , while also focusing on the reduction of duplicative reporting. CMS should allow APM participants to meet those requirements through a range of certified pathways, include modular CEHRT, APIs or other digital health tools for specific use cases approved by CMS . Flexibility would allow smaller or specialist -driven APM participants to tailor their tech stack to clinical needs and resource constraints while reducing barriers to APM participation. We would also encourage developing a national clearinghouse that ACOs, TIN or TIN/NPI participants can attest to once, annually, that CMS can then use to determine if ACOs and APM participants have met tech nology requirements rather than putting the burden on ACOs and providers. By putting the burden on technology companies to ensure their products meet the requirements, resources would be freed up within the practice space to address the primary purpose of providers – delivering the highest quality of care to their patients. 
 ©2025 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 4 VB-8. How can other HHS policies supplement CEHRT requirements to better optimize the use of digital health products in APMs? As an example, requirements under the Conditions of Participation for hospitals (42 CFR 482.24(d)) require hospitals to transmit e lectronic patient event notifications to community providers. What barriers are in place preventing APM participants from receiving the same notifications? The highly fractured state of Health Information Exchange (HIE) and Admission -Discharge -Transfer (ADT) feeds poses a prominent barrier to APM participants receiving these notifications. Our findings indicate that as many as 40 to 50% of all admissions happen outside of a hospital that is affiliated with our ACO. In other words, nearly half of the time the ACO will have no visibility to that admission unless it is picked up by the ADT feed or until the claim s data is shared with the ACO , which can be almost 90 days later. We strongly encourage CMS to consider what can be done to facilitate either better and more complete HIEs or to drive EMRs vendors to adopt better standards for sharing dat a with the appropriate parties . VB-9. What technology requirements should be different for APM organizations when comparing to non -APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and interoperability)? In light of the Administrations current focus on reducing regulatory burden, we highly recommend simplifying quality reporting processes for providers. Providers are faced with a complex set of options for how to report with multiple permutations of each major option. As reporting option change, so too should legacy reporting options be sunset to prevent confusion and drive for adoption of more modern processes. Standardized reporting options across all CMS and CMMI programs would further reduce burden for providers who may shift program participation from year to year based on which program is the best fit for their practice or health system and ensure changing programs does not once again result in the need for an EMR upgrade. Burden reduction is a key benefit for providers who participate in accountable care models, particularly two -sided risk models. In enacting Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act ( MACRA ), Congress recognized that participants in advanced APMs were undertaking many of the desired behaviors of cost control and quality improvement through their model designs. For this reason, clinicians participating in advanced APMs are exempt from the Merit -Based Incentive Payment System ( MIPS ). This longstanding polic y rationale has led to CMS attempting wherever possible to remove, waive or align model requirements, removing burden or duplication in favor of empowering the movement to accountable care. In contrast, CMS recently finalized a requirement that participant s in MSSP report the MIPS promoting interoperability performance category measures instead of the attestation requirement. This requirement adds, rather than reduces, burden for APM participants. CMS should rescind this requirement and differentiate APM re quirements from MIPS to the greatest extent possible. 
 ©2025 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 5 VB-10. In the Calendar Year (CY) 2024 Physician Fee Schedule final rule (88 FR 79413), CMS established that CEHRT requirements for Advanced APMs beyond those in the “Base EHR” definition should be flexible based on what is applicable to the APM that year b ased on the area of clinical practice. What certification criteria should CMS identify under this flexibility for specific Advanced APMs, or for Advanced APMs in general? Are there specific flexibilities or alternatives to consider for smaller or resource -constrained (such as rural) providers in meeting CEHRT requirements without compromising quality of care or availability of performance data? As previously mentioned in our comments, it is essential to consider the disparate impact of regulatory requirements on small independent or rural practices. These types of practices must have some degree of exceptions available to them with respect to rules like CEHRT. Without such exceptions, many of these providers will be unable to survive as independent practices moving forward due to the burden of technology cost. Consolidation of independent practices ultimately reduces patient choice in where to obt ain their care and reduces competition to provide high quality care that reduces unnecessary health expenditures. We would take this opportunity to reiterate our perspective that CMS should allow APM participants to meet requirements through a range of certified pathways, include modular CEHRT, APIs or other digital health tools for specific use cases approved by CMS . These flexibilities would allow smaller or specialist driven APM participants to tailor their tech nology capabilities to clinical needs and resource constraints while reducing barriers to APM participation. VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing value - based care programs? Data interoperability presents a major challenge for integration and innovation, largely due to slow and inconsistent adoption of industry standards like Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources® ( FHIR ®). While the industry is making progress, uptake remains sluggish, often hindered by major EHR vendors who make integration difficult for competitors. Th e lack of interoperability and standard adoption continues to represent a critical barrier to efficient data exchange and technological advancement. Addres sing the issue requires not only better technical solutions and unified standards, but also greater collaboration and governance across organizations . VB-12. What technology standardization would preserve program -specific flexibility while promoting innovation in APM technology implementation? AND VB-13. What improvements to existing criteria and standards would better support value -based care capabilities while reducing provider burden? Greater adoption of interoperability standards like FHIR ® would bring significant benefits to healthcare by enabling seamless, secure data exchange between disparate systems and organizations. With standardized data formats and protocols, healthcare providers could access complete and up-to-date patient information regardless of which EHR system is used, reducing errors and improving care coordination. Patients would benefit from a smoother experience, as their medical history could follow them effortlessly between doctors, specialists, and hospitals, empowering them to be more engaged in their own care. Additionally, standardized interoperability paves the way for innovative healthcare 
 ©2025 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 6 technologies, data analytics, and population health initiatives, ultimately leading to better patient outcomes, increased efficiency, reduced provider burden, and lower costs across the healthcare system. VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its effectivenes s? A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints would significantly improve access to patient data and enhance understanding of claims data sources by serving as a central, authoritative resource for discovering where and how to connect with different he althcare organizations' digital systems. With such a directory, healthcare providers, payers, and authorized third parties could easily identify the correct FHIR API endpoints needed to securely request clinical and claims information from other organizati ons, streamlining data exchange and reducing administrative burden. This ready access would enable faster and more accurate retrieval of patients’ medical histories and insurance records, which is crucial for care coordination, transitions of care, and minimizing duplicate tests or procedures. Additionally, clarity about w here claims data resides —and how to access it through FHIR APIs —would support more effective analytics, eligibility verification, and value -based care initiatives. 