E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
June 16, 2025
Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244-1850
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Dr. Oz,
TALON appreciates the opportunity to comment on CMS’ Health Technology
Ecosystem RFI. We at TALON are eager to help CMS reduce the total cost of
Medicare while maintaining or increasing the quality. Our detailed response
to the RFI is attached to this document and includes our observations of
Medicare and our ideas for improving it.
This document discusses an immediately available solution that will save
both the government and Medicare beneficiaries billions of dollars in
aggregate and can be implemented quickly.
Our primary recommendation is to implement a tool that enables Medicare
beneficiaries to easily shop for healthcare based on cost, quality, and
convenience. The shopping experience can (and should!) include an
incentive to shop for the best value care through monetary rewards
calculated as a portion of the total amount saved by the government. Thus,
the more the recipient saves the government, the greater the reward!
A short video of TALON’s solution currently targeted at the commercial
marketplace to demonstrate this feature set can be viewed at this link:
https://vimeo.com/984529001
There is substantial price variation between certain Medicare providers and
therefore can have a huge cost savings potential for both the recipient and
the US government. This chart represents actual price disparity in Medicare
pricing near Washington, DC:
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
Procedure Minimum Maximum % Difference
CT Angiography Head $31 $302 868%
Comprehensive Hearing Test $23 $140 501%
CT Chest Spine W/O Dye $40 $123 208%
Speech Evaluation $26 $133 422%
Artery X-ray Arms/Legs $151 $794 428%
Vein X-ray Arms/Legs $272 $1,278 369%
Shoulder Arthroscopy $388 $1,139 197%
Lymph System Imaging $33 $387 1,068%
Hammertoe Correction $358 $1,079 201%
Based on our experience, smart shopping has the potential to save up to 20%
of Medicare costs - over $100B per year! Significant savings can start to be
realized within a few short months of the decision to move ahead with this
type of solution.
Our experience has shown a rapid adoption rate by individuals that grows
quickly as the savings to the individual become known. Initial adoption of
20-30% can be expected, frequently doubling over a couple of calendar
quarters.
To be successful, this solution must:
• Provide a rewards method that automatically increases the award as
the savings increases
• Show actual, total costs associated with each procedure
• Be widely available by both mobile and desktop computer users
• Be intuitive and easy to use
• Provide “at-a glance” visibility into rewards, out of pocket vs maximum
outlays, savings earned, Medicare cards and documents, etc.
• Be provided by an organization with deep experience in health care
cost transparency, with a reasonable installed base
• Be provided by an organization that is financially healthy
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
• Provide dashboards to CMS to measure adoption, savings, and overall
health of the program, highlighting wasteful spending, recipient
engagement, and financial modeling to ensure savings and benefits
that benefit. Dashboards need to:
o Understand medical spend and utilization patterns across
various categories, such as inpatient, outpatient, and
prescription drugs,
o Identify areas where significant savings can be achieved by
encouraging employees to shop for lower-cost, high-quality care
options.
o Evaluate the adoption and effectiveness of the solution among
recipients,
o Understand the shopping and engagement behaviors including
the types of procedures shopped for and the potential savings
generated.
One example of a dashboard:
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
• Show all providers of a particular medical service within the prescribed
geographic area
• Scale support quickly and professionally to serve a very large
population of recipients
• Be provided by an organization that is not associated with any
providers or payers
• Be provided by a US-based and owned organization
• Have adequate safeguards for privacy and confidentiality of user’s data
TALON was founded by our CEO, Mark Galvin, a recognized leader and
pioneer in health cost transparency. Mr. Galvin presented to President
Trump’s Domestic Policy Council in 2018. His presentation and follow-up
meetings played a key role in bringing health care cost transparency to
realization. Under his leadership, TALON has become the leader in health
care shopping applications, with millions of users today.
We encourage CMS to invite us to visit your headquarters and present a
detailed vision of how this solution and its associated analytics will work for
the Medicare population and CMS. Mr. Galvin will personally attend and
answer any questions or concerns you may have, and, of course, solicit ideas
from the CMS staff on how to make this approach even more effective.
With Best Regards,
Daniel Doherty
TALON | Senior Director, Government and Analytics Sales
dan.doherty@talonhealthtech.com
508-572-8311
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
TALON’s Detailed Comments on Request for
Information: Health Technology Ecosystem
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help
you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs,
as well as the actions you should take?
To effectively manage healthcare needs, apps for Medicare beneficiaries
must be capable of not only surfacing actionable insights but also removing
friction from decision-making. These apps must be built around a unified,
consumer-first platform that empowers patients to make confident, cost-
conscious, and clinically appropriate decisions. Specifically, Medicare
beneficiaries would benefit from an app that exposes accurate, personalized
out-of-pocket amounts for the care they need prior to their date of service,
enabling comparison of providers on the merits of price, quality, and
convenience. Other related features could include identifying participating
providers that accept new patients, tracking accumulator amounts (such as
deductible), and maintaining a current form of their healthcare ID card.
There is substantial price variation between certain types of providers serving
the Medicare market and no current solution to enable price discovery in
advance of care. Medicare beneficiaries would benefit from price
transparency tools to work with their advisors to get care in the most
appropriate setting. Commercial plans are already obligated to provide
similar functionality to their members per the requirements of the
Transparency in Coverage Rule and No Surprises Act.
Additionally, such an app could allow Medicare to incent beneficiaries to
receive care in lower cost settings - for example, redirecting from a hospital
setting to an ambulatory surgical center for outpatient surgeries or from an
emergency room to an urgent care center for low severity issues. Existing
tools in the commercial marketplace have already been developed to
dynamically calculate rewards based on the care options available to the
patient within a reasonable distance, a benchmark price below which paying
a reward is appropriate, and a portion of total savings to be shared, among
other customizable options. Given the Medicare cost sharing structure with
beneficiaries, CMS stands to save much more money than the patient when
the cost of care is reduced. Accordingly, CMS is in a position to pay rewards
to beneficiaries for making consumer-minded choices when it comes to their
care. These rewards could take the form of a reduction in their annual
deductible or a contribution to a savings account to be used towards future
care, for example.
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or
personal health record apps that would be useful to Medicare
beneficiaries and their caregivers?
Yes! TALON offers a suite of interconnected digital health tools to
commercially insured populations that also align with the unique needs of
Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers by supporting health literacy,
financial empowerment, informed decision-making, and proactive
engagement. These tools are particularly impactful in helping users navigate
complex care systems, especially in the face of high-cost procedures,
fragmented data, and legacy systems that often burden seniors and
caregivers alike.
In particular, TALON’s MyMedicalShopper product allows users to compare
in-network provider options based on price and location, surfacing
personalized out-of-pocket estimates for common services like imaging,
outpatient surgery, and labs and highlights the most cost-effective, high-
quality options. Many beneficiaries are on fixed incomes and are highly cost
sensitive. This tool empowers them to make fiscally responsible healthcare
decisions based on validated pricing data. Furthermore, TALON’s
MyMedicalRewards system, which complements and is integrated with
MyMedicalShopper, enables all rewards-related functionality described in our
response to PC-1. Incentive rewards are powerful motivators, especially for
beneficiaries managing chronic conditions or on tight budgets. Rewarding
good consumer-minded decisions will improve long-term engagement with
digital tools and result in cost savings to beneficiaries and Medicare alike.
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are
aware of today?
a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not
exist yet?
Medicare beneficiaries should have access to similar pricing transparency
mandated in the commercial marketplace under the Transparency in
Coverage Rule and No Surprises Act. In addition to helping each Medicare
beneficiary manage their own cost sharing for their care through advanced
price discovery that enables them to redirect their care to lower-cost
alternatives, CMS could incent those on Medicare with rewards for making
consumer-minded choices from claims savings, reducing the total cost to the
American taxpayer. As an entitlement program, Medicare has long been
understood to provide security for those of an advanced age or with
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
disabilities, but less attention has been paid to helping beneficiaries manage
their out-of-pocket responsibility for care. Those that choose to interact with
the Medicare system efficiently and reduce their costs will also save Medicare
a substantial amount of money.
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and
caregiver interest in these digital health products?
Price transparency applications would benefit from Medicare conformance
with requirements placed on commercial plans to publish machine-readable
files containing all allowed amounts in the standard format set forth in the
Transparency in Coverage Rule, real-time access to accumulator amounts for
Medicare beneficiaries available to third-party applications, and daily
updates to Medicare network directories, possibly including updates to
NPPES NPI data which is woefully flawed and out of date. CMS can also
expand access to high-value datasets via APIs, particularly those that
influence care decisions (price, availability, incentives, quality).
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health
products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and
caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience using
digital tools and services?
Accessibility considerations are most important to Medicare beneficiaries as
they interact with price transparency tools would include plain language
search, diagnosis-based search, large-type/high-contrast mode, caregiver
delegation for account access, multi-lingual UI, and concise presentation of
salient financial information.
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health
products’ impact on health outcomes and related costs once they
are released into the market, what would be the best means of doing
so?
TALON has demonstrated the efficacy and impact that price transparency
tools can have on the member population of a commercial health plan
through outcomes realized by clients using our services for the past several
years, as demonstrated in this case study:
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
Following implementation by CMS at a large scale, similar approaches can be
taken to track utilization shifts (i.e. movement to lower-cost providers),
analyze changes in the total cost of care for shoppable services, monitor
frequency of use for transparency applications, etc.
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
PC-8 (b). What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical
data, that would be of highest value, and why?
Should CMS decide to create machine readable files of negotiated rates for
Medicare, we believe it is critically important to expose employer
identification numbers (EINs) in the NPPES NPI file so that providers can be
accurately identified in the MRF. Currently, providers are identified primarily
by their EIN in these files, but there is no comprehensive, public database
describing EINs. Certain entities already report their EIN publicly, such as
those entities filing Form 5500 related to employee benefit plans, tax-exempt
organizations filing form 990, SEC’s EDGAR system, and more. We believe the
same transparency of EINs should be exposed through the NPPES data for
medical provider entities.
PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient
demographic, Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D),
what additional CMS data sources do developers view as most
valuable for inclusion in the API to enable more useful digital
products for patients and caretakers?
a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources
today?
b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API
experience?
c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API?
Preventive Services Eligibility & Utilization History
• Annual preventive service status (e.g., mammogram due, colonoscopy
completed).
• Integration of benefit schedule and service history into the API to
support behavioral nudging and incentive targeting.
Why this matters: MyMedicalRewards™ can drive preventive service
completion and improve outcomes when eligibility is visible and timely.
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
Provider Quality Ratings & Episode-Based Outcome Scores
• CMS Compare program data (Hospital, Physician, Home Health, etc.) in
API-readable format.
• Episode-based quality ratings, readmission risk scores, and volume data.
Why this matters: For seniors and caregivers navigating complex choices,
quality-adjusted guidance is just as important as price-based
recommendations.
Care Coordination Data Elements
• A list of active providers and care managers linked to the beneficiary.
• Medication adherence indicators and chronic care episodes in
progress.
Why this matters: Enables multi-stakeholder digital tools to coordinate
messaging, engagement, and education—especially useful for family
caregivers.
TALON is committed to building consumer-focused tools on top of validated,
interoperable infrastructure—and welcomes CMS collaboration to expand
the Blue Button ecosystem into a platform that powers truly informed, value-
based healthcare navigation.
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases
for patients and caregivers that, if addressed, would create more
efficient care navigation or eliminate barriers to competition among
providers or both?
The potential to create a use case for binding cost estimates for care is very
similar to the Advanced Explanation of Benefits requirements set forth under
the No Surprises Act. Medicare could use the existing framework for this
purpose as well, however a clear method for transmitting data between
providers and CMS for advanced adjudication should be defined in advance.
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801

E M P O W E R I N G T H E F U T U R E O F H E A L T H C A R E
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers,
including those in rural areas, to leverage approved (see description
in PC-5) digital health products for their patients?
a. What are the current obstacles?
b. What information should providers share with patients when using
digital products in the provision of their care?
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a
digital product by a patient?
CMS could provide transparency software specifically for use by providers to
enable care navigation. For example, providers would benefit by having an
application that could accurately show options available to one of their
patients for referral. Information regarding cost (price of services, cost
sharing with member), quality, and convenience (travel distance) would all
be displayed on a single screen which, when combined with the care
navigator/provider’s expertise could enable better referral decision making.
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and
timeliness?
There is no currently available tool to describe differences in pricing between
the various providers available to a Medicare beneficiary for any given
medical need. There is no calculation and advanced notification of one’s
personal responsibility for any care delivered with respect to specific
providers and services. No apps are available to create price transparency in
a format that might be most accessible and convenient to Medicare
beneficiaries.
TALONhealthtech.com | 99 Bow Street, 100E, Portsmouth, NH 03801