June 16, 2025
Anna McCollister
Project Lead & Co-Chair
Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Dr. Mehmet Oz, Administrator
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
P.O. Box 8016
Baltimore, MD 21244-8016
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Attention: [CMS-0042-NC] RIN 0938-AV68
Submitted electronically to http://www.regulations.gov
Dear Administrator Oz:
As the project lead and co-chair for the Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement
Strategy Workgroup, I am submitting a series of comments, insights and
recommendations in response to the Request for Information: Health Technology
Ecosystem.
As a patient who lives with complex chronic health conditions, I have spent many years
advocating for improvements in data standards, patient data access, medical device
and electronic health data interoperability, data liquidity and accelerated innovation in

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 2 of 15
health technology. Within that context, I find the timing, tenor and direction of the RFI
encouraging and motivating. The direction of the questions indicates a sincere desire
by CMS under the Trump Administration to seriously consider and address the growing
burdens associated with the complexity of care for patients and caregivers by
leveraging digital tools and processes that have been successfully incorporated into
the functions of other industries.
Overview
Despite the substantial gains made in health information policy, medical devices and
digital health tools over the years, we still have a long way to go. While some aspects
of accessing data have become easier for some, in many respects the complexity,
responsibility and corresponding workload for patients has increased.
When we launched the Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup for the Sequoia
Project in March 2024, we began by documenting and characterizing the many layers
of patient data dysfunction as experienced from the perspective of patients and
caregivers. We built on the work of the Sequoia Project’s Consumer Voices Workgroup,
a year-long focus group of patients. In addition, we conducted one-on-one interviews
with patients and caregivers and reviewed published research and media coverage
about patient data access issues. The stories shared were replete with seemingly
unnecessary bureaucratic processes, requirements and costly duplicative needs for
information and testing.
Facing this burden amidst a time of fear, pain and often overwhelm, patients and
caregivers expressed frustration, anger, defeat and a sense of learned helplessness
against a “system” that seemed uninterested in or incapable of being sensitive to the
burdens faced by patients who simply wanted to stay healthy and get care. None of
the problems identified were impossible to fix. What was missing was the lack of
incentives to fix them.
What our research documented was not a revelation to anybody who lives with
complex illness and is forced to interact with our healthcare system. While patient care
may be the business of health care, addressing patient needs, promoting patient health
and supporting patient autonomy and agency are not a priority within the “system” as it
operates today.
During our Workgroup kick-off meeting, we identified four core pillars of patient data
needs, summarized in aspirational statements of what we hope all patients can
someday say. These “user stories” serve to guide our work, which is focused on
developing solutions to support the creation of an ecosystem that enables and
empowers patients. They include:

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 3 of 15
For the past year, our workgroup has been exploring each of these pillars of patient
data need, inviting expert speakers to highlight what is currently possible, what is not
and identifying specific barriers that are perpetuating the state of patient data
dysfunction. Along the way, we realized that while some of the remaining barriers are
the unintended consequence of policy, much of the “friction” introduced into the
system that increases patient data burden relates to very fixable processes and
operations that are not deemed priorities by provider practices, institutions and their
vendors. As a result, a patient facing a health crisis is confronted with a system that is
not set up to meet their needs. Administrative staff or overworked providers are forced
to help the patient figure it out as they go. This inefficiency increases workload not just
for patients but for practice and hospital staff and often fails to be sufficiently timely to
meet the needs of patients in urgent need of data and/or care. In the best case
scenario, tests are often repeated to get the needed data. In the worst case, precious
time is lost, care is provided without the needed data and decisions are made without
context necessary to ensure the best result.
Solving the “Last Mile Problem” for Patient Data Access
Our workgroup is developing a set of best practices and recommendations for how to
address these process and operational challenges, which we call “solving the last mile
problem” for patient data access. We plan to publish the best practices for public
comment in the coming weeks. Once the best practices are finalized, our plan
includes the development of an industry-wide pledge to build support for adopting
these best practices, which we will launch later in 2025. As part of our activities, we
also plan to identify opportunities for corresponding policy considerations. Some of
those are included in our responses to your questions below. In the meantime, we

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 4 of 15
welcome the opportunity that CMS has provided for us to provide input into how the
Trump Administration can not only solve issues related to patient data dysfunction but
enable health technology to evolve and unleash new opportunities for patients to
manage their care and maintain their health.
Thank you for issuing this forward-thinking RFI. On behalf of our workgroup, I am
excited for the directions you are signaling through this process. Our comments to the
specific questions are below.
Sincerely,
Anna McCollister
Member, Health IT Advisory Committee
Project Lead and Co-Chair, The Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy
Workgroup

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 5 of 15
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help
you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs,
as well as the actions you should take?
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your
or your loved ones' health that can be enabled by digital health
products?
Data Access
Most patients would prefer to focus on life and health, rather than on health care,
doctor’s appointments, medication refills and access to data.
Today, many patients are still forced to serve as their own “health information
exchange” of one, manually accessing, aggregating, organizing, updating and
transporting their data from one health provider to the next. For patients with long-
term, complex or chronic disease, which is the case for many Medicare patients, this
can be a difficult, tedious, time-consuming and overwhelming process.
Personal Data Access
As noted in the four pillars of patient need listed previously in our comments, from the
outset our workgroup identified four affirmative statements patients should be able to
make related to personal data access. These include:
• All of my health information is readily accessible to me and my caregivers in one
place when I need it
• My patient portal makes it easy to find my visit reports, lab results, prescriptions
and physician notes
• I can access all of my health information from all of my physicians through a
personal health hub of my choosing
• It’s easy for me to be able to do what I need with my data to manage my health and
care.
These statements represent the most basic needs of any patient, caregiver or parent.
All of them are achievable with our current technology.
Specific policy considerations to facilitate:
Safe Harbor for IAS and Patient Matching – While TEFCA guarantees individuals the
right to access their data through TEFCA Individual Access Services (IAS), very few

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 6 of 15
patients or patient-chosen PHRs have been able to use IAS successfully. The primary
barrier blocking effective IAS is the issue of “patient matching”. As it currently stands,
the HHS Office of Civil Rights (OCR) has maintained a stance that any inadvertent
release of data to the wrong patient will be subject to enforcement action. While at face
value this seems to protect patients, in fact it actually causes unnecessary harm and
risk by preventing patient data access through TEFCA. Hospitals or providers who are
concerned about enforcement action refuse to enable patient access to data through
TEFCA if they have any concerns they might send “John Smith” data that belongs to
another person in the same city with the same name. This issue is solved daily by
providers who send and receive data using frameworks, such as TEFCA and
CareQuality. In those instances, both the sender and receiver are “covered entities”, so
there is no risk of an enforcement action if the wrong data is sent.
HHS’ OCR could eliminate this barrier by creating a “safe harbor” rule that establishes
a HITRUST- like gold standard of steps that providers can implement to ensure they are
sending the right data to the right patient. If this gold standard process is implemented,
any provider who inadvertently sent data on the wrong patient would not be subject to
OCR enforcement action. Providing a “safe harbor” for providers will enable PHRs and
other apps to evolve to help solve many of the unnecessarily complex patient data
access issues.
Medical Device Data APIs – Require any company that manufacturers an in-patient or
out-patient medical device that is covered by CMS to provide access to real-time data
streams through accessible APIs. Currently, much of the data generated by medical
devices remains siloed and stored in ways that are not readily accessible by patients.
Even when data is available through apps, such as Apple Health, the company restricts
other companies’ access to the Software Development Kit (SDK) needed to enable the
data to feed seamlessly into other apps in real time. This greatly limits the development
of newer, better tools and apps that can use data from multiple data streams to provide
patients with more comprehensive insights needed to improve their care. Similarly,
some imaging device companies, such as those who manufacturer devices used for
ophthalmological diagnostics, refuse to allow access to the raw data files for images.
This makes it difficult for ophthalmology images to be readily incorporated into EHRs. It
also restricts the ability for researchers to improve diagnostic methods or create AI-
based improvements in diagnostic accuracy. These device companies, by limiting
access to data, are preventing the development of newer, better tools that could
improve patients’ lives, decrease patient burden and facilitate better understanding and
care.

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 7 of 15
Care Team Data Access
As referenced above, enabling provider access to all of a patient’s health data is a
basic patient data need. Our workgroup established four affirmative “user stories”
about care team data access to guide our activities. These include:
• All of my data is readily accessible to all of my care team through their EHR,
regardless of their practice affiliation
• All of my physicians have access to all of the data about me that I choose to make
available through their office electronic health record
• It’s easy for me to share all of my data with the providers, apps and researchers I
choose
• I am able to choose to not share specific types of health data with certain providers
We applaud the efforts ASTP/ONC and CMS have taken to encourage and improve
health data interoperability. We encourage CMS to continue these efforts to increase
health data interoperability among providers, ensuring each of the patient’s providers,
regardless of where they practice, can access patient data without requiring patients to
be the courier. Specifically CMS could consider:
• Increasing the adoption of FHIR-based data exchange by including more data
classes and elements within USCDI at faster rates of adoption.
• Require access to diagnostic tests and images through a readily accessible
platform, such as the patient portal or PHR, which would enable the patient to be
able to download their data or direct it to a personal health record, online storage
folder or another provider, without the need to engage with medical records
departments. This would ensure hospitals and providers are compliant with the
information blocking rule’s requirement to make digital files accessible in a timely
manner. It would also help prevent unnecessary, costly repeats to diagnostic tests
and images.
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top
things you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks
that could be supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future.
The type of support needed or desired by patients varies by the patient, their disease
complexity, personal preferences and technical capabilities. Our research for the
workgroup suggests key areas of need are:

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 8 of 15
• Data collection, aggregation, updating and sharing with other doctors, family
members, researchers or health apps. The technology and methods to accomplish
this have been used by other industries for years through user agreements and
APIs. Patients and entrepreneurs have attempted to create these tools, but an array
of policy barriers and “privacy protections” have prevented the type of seamless
data liquidity needed to empower patients to efficiently manage their health and
care and support research for their community.
• Scheduling appointments with physicians or specialists needed to care for new or
evolving health care needs. Several barriers prevent this from being readily
implemented through technology, but the administrative burden for gaining access
to new and specialist physicians is substantial.
• Managing prescription refills from various physicians through retail, online and/or
specialty pharmacies. This would include monitoring supply on hand, ensuring refills
are sent through by physicians in sufficient time, managing the process of prior
authorization and tracking the medication or device supply chain status of the
pharmacy amidst shortages.
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health
information in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another
software system)?
a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided?
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to
( printed page 21037) use one portal or system to access all such health
information?
As stated above, from the outset of our workgroup, we established four core pillars of
patient data need. For each pillar, we listed four “user stories” that we hoped that our
work could help support achieving.
Personal data access is critically important for patients and caregivers. The specific
needs and uses for any individual will vary considerably, based on the individual’s
health, capabilities, disease complexity and treatments. What works perfectly for one
patient will be woefully inadequate for another. There is no single tool or app that will
support the needs of all patients. What is essential is the need for easily accessible,
freely “liquid” data that can flow, at the patient’s discretion and direction. The
data needs to be readily exchangeable among providers, but it also is vitally essential
that all of a patient’s electronic health information is available to patients, not just
through portals but through API-based data exchange that can enable data to be
instantly retrieved by a patient’s chosen method or shared through smart phones,

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 9 of 15
personal computers or Web-based platforms. Prioritizing patient need for data access
will simultaneously stimulate the type of data liquidity needed to improve data access
for providers and researchers.
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that
were unavailable? What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved
ones' complete health information electronically and using it for managing health
conditions or finding the best care (for example, limitations in functionality, user
friendliness, or access to basic technology infrastructure)?
Our workgroup documented a broad array of patient data dysfunction across the
healthcare system. The obstacles were varied, but included:
• Information barriers – information related to accessing health data is scattered
throughout a hospital or provider institution’s websites. The information needs to be
consolidated into a cohesive patient data resource center that considers the needs
of the patient to understand clearly what they need to do to access their data and
arms them with the context, information and tools to enable patient agency in
obtaining their data in a timely manner without significant effort and burden.
• Process barriers – In many cases, providers seemingly have failed to consider the
various steps necessary to facilitate easy patient data access, especially for data
that is not accessible through the portal. Some examples:
• Forcing patients to print information, scan documents or fax forms to doctors is
a significant burden and barrier for many who may not have access to a
functional printer, scanner or fax machine.
• Providing images in CD or USB A/B formats, which are increasingly obsolete for
most home and office computer systems.
• Requiring patients to interact with medical records departments who are
unaware of the information blocking rule’s requirement that electronic data be
provided in a timely manner. Many continue to cite the HIPAA data access rule
requirements that give providers 30 days to provide the information needed to
patients, refusing to provide data or images to patients until the patients have
mailed in a check and the check has cleared, after which they have 30 days to
provide the records.
• Requiring payment by paper check. As referenced above, many providers still
require patients to mail or hand deliver a paper check to gain access to their
data, despite the fact that providers willingly accept credit or debit card
payments for services. The check requirement is an unnecessary and
cumbersome barrier that introduces significant friction for patients and delays
access to data.

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 10 of 15
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver
interest in these digital health products?
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health
products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health
outcomes (not approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What
criteria should be used if there is a review process? What technology
solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient
and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example,
enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new
beneficiary communications)?
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider
generated data on patients?
Quality Measures for Patient User Experience
Over the past decade, CMS has invested heavily in establishing and implementing a
series of quality measures aimed at improving patient care. While most of the measures
are appropriately focused on outcomes, a small set of measures have focused on
patient experience. Measures such as the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) and the corresponding outpatient
version, OAS CAHPS, have resulted in noticeable improvements in patient experiences
in the clinical environment.
CMS should build on the success of these two measures by establishing standards for
user experience related to data access, information navigation and administrative
processes. Once standards are established, CMS should require all providers,
pharmacies, device companies and other entities that receive payment from CMS to
conduct user experience testing and submit their results to CMS as part of the
incentive payment system. User experience testing is ubiquitous throughout software
development and user-centered design. These methods can be harnessed and
incorporated into quality measures to improve user experience related to administrative
concerns and patient data access.
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health
products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and
caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience using
digital tools and services?
As referenced above, rather than developing proscriptive requirements about user
workflow or interfaces that might limit creativity and innovation, CMS should incentivize
care burden reduction through user experience quality measures. It’s essential for

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 11 of 15
entrepreneurs and innovators to have the flexibility to solve problems in new ways. A
quality measure based on user experience with digital interfaces linked to care, data
access and administration ensures a focus on patient burden reduction without limiting
how that burden reduction might be achieved.
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health
products' impact on health outcomes and related costs once they are
released into the market, what would be the best means of doing so?
Per the recommendation above, CMS should require user experience testing and
reporting for all providers, vendors, pharmacies, insurance companies, device
manufacturers and others who receive direct or indirect payment from CMS. These
requirements should be incorporated into the CMS incentive payment system.
2. Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and
valuable to patients or their caregivers or both?
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or
app developers and other technical vendors, to access for
appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical
data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment
schedules, prices)
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data,
that would be of highest value, and why?
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve
accessibility, interoperability and integration of clinical data from
different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research
and generation of actionable evidence?
For many patients, data remains siloed and segmented. For those with complex health
conditions and multiple providers, data remains scattered across a variety of portals,
apps and pharmacies. Attempts to access data through apps like Apple Health are
thwarted by barriers, such as expiring “trust tokens” and device manufacturers’
policies that delay access to real-time data from medical devices. These barriers make
it difficult for third party developers to create tools and apps that make data access

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 12 of 15
easy, seamless and tailored to the needs of individual patients or groups of patients.
One-size-fits-all solutions often meet the needs of nobody. Specific examples of
difficult to access data include:
• Imaging data – x-rays, MRIs, echocardiograms, ultrasounds, etc. Imaging data
should be readily accessible to patients via their portal or through other API-based
exchange methods that could route the images to phone- or web-based apps.
• Ophthalmological images – retinal scans and other images collected in-office by
ophthalmologists at the point of care. These images are not currently incorporated
into the patient portal or EHR. In addition, manufacturers of these devices restrict
access to the raw data for researchers interested in developing improved methods
for diagnosis and treatment.
• Sensor data – real-time data from sensors, such as continuous glucose monitors,
is restricted by the manufacturers who unnecessarily restrict access to their SDK
and create a three-hour delay for other apps to access the data. This delay makes it
impossible for third-party developers to create useful apps that integrate CGM data.
• Home-based and remote monitoring data – data from digital scales, blood
pressure cuffs, home-based EEGs and watch-based sensors is accessible to
patients but scattered in different platforms. None of it is readily accessible to
physicians or incorporated into existing EHR systems. This lack of incorporation of
this critical, patient-generated data will limit the development of useful AI-derived
clinical analysis of patients with complex disease and potentially introduce
unnecessary harms.
• Pharmacy supply chain data – information about which pharmacies have specific
medications in stock and in what doses. Drug shortages and supply chain issues
create substantial burdens for patients who are forced to call from pharmacy to
pharmacy to identify a store that has their medication in stock. Often, pharmacists
say they will order the medication for the next day, but the medication does not
arrive as ordered. All of the data about medication stocks, distribution and
transportation is accessible in structured format through APIs. Pharmacists,
physicians and patients should be able to access that data through apps that
connect to the already established logistical APIs.

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 13 of 15
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common
AgreementTM (TEFCATM) currently helping to advance patient access
to health information in the real world?
a. Please provide specific examples.
b. What changes would you suggest?
As referenced above, the inclusion of IAS in TEFCA was important, but the promise has
not been realized due to concerns over “patient matching”. Creating a “safe harbor”
policy that would identify a gold standard of patient matching approaches and provide
providers with an assurance that they would not be subject to enforcement action
would be helpful.
3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit
information blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking
Portal? What would be the impact? Would increasing reporting of
complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange?
CMS should consider requiring all providers and institutions that receive funding from
CMS to create a centralized patient data resource center, which includes all of the
information needed by patients related to data access, rights, data exchange and
privacy. Within that resource center, include a requirement that providers have a call-
out button that patients can click that will take them directly to the ASTP/ONC form for
reporting information blocking.
By making it easier for patients to report information blocking, CMS would incentivize
providers and their vendors to ensure they comply with the information blocking rule’s
requirement that all patient data in electronic formats is readily accessible in a timely
manner.
____________________________________________
About The Sequoia Project
The Sequoia Project is a non-profit, 501(c)(3) public-private collaborative that advances
the interoperability of electronic health information for the public good. The Sequoia
Project has a long history of enabling nationwide interoperability through sustainable
initiatives. We work with stakeholders from across healthcare and health IT to identify,
prioritize, and collaboratively address the most pressing and impactful challenges to
nationwide health information sharing.

Comments on Health Tech Ecosystem RFI
Submitted by Anna McCollister on behalf of
Sequoia Project’s Consumer Engagement Strategy Workgroup
Page 14 of 15
The Sequoia Project’s Interoperability Matters initiative brings together providers,
consumers, caregivers, payers, health IT companies, health information networks,
federal agencies, and other stakeholders to focus on creating practical, consensus-
driven approaches that result in substantial progress in interoperability health
information sharing from a practical perspective. Our Interoperability Matters
workgroups provide participants with an opportunity to engage with other leaders in
health IT on a range of topics, including Consumer Engagement Strategy, Privacy &
Consent, Payer-to-Payer FHIR API Implementation Data Usability, Public Health,
Pharmacy Interoperability and Information Sharing.