How You Can Effectively Participate in the Regulatory Process
Through Public Comment
When most people think of laws, they think of bills passed by Congress and signed into law by the
President. However, many legal requirements come from “regulations” or “rules” that are issued by
agencies that work for the President, like the Department of Transportation or the Department of
Health and Human Services, instead of Congress.
Regulations, like statutes passed by Congress, are law. Congress passes statutes that give agencies the
authority to issue regulations. Regulations can impose binding legal requirements. Regulations can
do everything from creating requirements for food manufacturing companies to prevent food-borne
illness to outlining certain requirements for going through TSA security screening on your way to
board a flight. Regulations can establish significant policies and requirements for individual citizens,
state and local governments, small businesses, and organizations large and small.
An important way for Americans to influence the policies impacting their lives is by interacting
directly with federal agencies on the regulations those agencies create. Federal law generally provides
organizations and individuals with opportunities to comment on agencies’ proposed regulations.
Agencies, in turn, consider comments the public submitted on their proposed rules and, in
publishing any final rule, must respond to relevant and significant comments.
Effective, relevant comments provide regulators with information to help them improve draft rules.
Comments are typically most effective when they provide information directly relevant to analyzing
the rule and its potential impact. While members of the public are both allowed and welcome to
express their support or opposition to a proposed regulation, simply stating that you support or
oppose a policy is not as persuasive as explaining how the policy would positively or negatively
impact the specific situation with which you are familiar. The goal of this guide is to help you write
effective comments on agencies’ proposed rules by describing how to structure comments and what
should be included in them to make them as useful for agencies as possible.
Make Your Voice Heard
The process by which agency rules or regulations are made is different from how Congress develops
legislation. Congress directs agencies who work for the President to develop regulations by taking
certain important steps. Generally, agencies are first required to publish a proposed rule and seek
comment from the public on it,1 often providing a window of 30 to 60 days to submit comments
after a proposed rule is issued. Agencies then consider public comments and, in issuing any final
rule, must respond to significant, relevant comments. In doing so, agencies may explain how those
comments informed any changes from the proposed rule. If the agency fails to adequately respond
1 Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 553.
1

to significant, relevant comments in a final rule, members of the public may seek to challenge the
rule in court on that basis and claim it should be struck down. In other words, agencies generally
must consider the voice and perspective of public commenters in the rulemaking process.
While agencies consider views from the public, the public comment process is not a vote. The
number of public comments submitted in favor of a regulation does not ensure that it will move
forward. (The opposite is also true—the number of comments against a rule’s proposed course does
not indicate whether it will be withdrawn.) An agency also is not required to change its proposed
policy simply because a commenter suggests it should. Particularly influential public comments are
often those that simply provide good reasoning and evidence or a perspective that the agency had
not previously considered.
How to Make Your Comments Effective
Effective public comments often have one or more of the following characteristics:
(1) an introduction where you explain why you are interested in the regulation and highlight
any experience with the subject of the rule that may distinguish your comment;
(2) a background section where you clearly identify the relevant part of the regulation you are
commenting on;
(3) analysis that lays out your argument and evidence (including with clear citations to any
helpful research)—for example, how the action impacts you and what you care about;
whether the agency anticipated or estimated these impacts correctly; any unintended
consequences of this approach that the agency did not consider; and what additional details
from the agency would help you better understand the action;
(4) recommendations describing your suggestions to the agency and identifying specific
changes you would advise—for example, providing a different way of addressing the
problem the agency may not have considered; and
(5) a conclusion which recaps your main argument and lists your recommendations again.
What information is helpful?
The basic idea of seeking public comment in developing regulations is that even though the agencies
have staff with deep, specific knowledge, they cannot perfectly guess every potential impact of a
proposed regulation, such as how a given policy may affect a specific market, industry, activity, or
person. Public comments on a proposed regulation can help make sure that the government is on
the right track—or alert it when it’s not—by providing information that challenges or supports the
agency’s assumptions and approach.
In drafting a public comment, it is helpful to pay special attention to any prompts from the agency
itself, such as questions or requests for data or evidence, within the proposed rule. Such prompts
2

highlight areas the agency believes are important, where it may be missing information, and where it
thinks commenters could be most helpful.
Note that a good comment need not be extremely technical to be effective and helpful. In fact,
some of the most effective comments are from individuals who describe the impacts of a proposal
in terms of their own lived experience. Letting an agency know what may or may not work “on the
ground” is often a very useful perspective to share.
Drawing on best practices, here are considerations and evaluative criteria that may help to make
your comments more effective:
• Consider the problem that the regulation intends to address. Why is this regulation needed? What is
the problem the agency is trying to address? Is it actually a problem?
• Consider whether proposed regulations are based on the best available scientific, technical, economic,
experience-based, and other information. If you are aware of flawed, inaccurate, or out of date
information the agency is using, for example, your comment explaining that fact to the
agency will be very helpful for the agency to get its regulation right.
• Consider whether the agency is missing a certain perspective. A proposed rule may have particular
impacts on a specific group or community, such as small businesses. Members of these
communities or affiliated groups may be able to offer the agency insights into their
perspectives.
• Consider whether the costs of the proposed regulation are justified by its benefits. Generally, the costs a
regulation imposes should be justified by the benefits that it brings. Are they?
• Consider distributional analysis and costs or benefits that are hard to monetize. Those who bear the
costs of a rule and those who enjoy its benefits are not always the same people. Identifying
the differences between who will enjoy the benefits and bear the costs can help an agency in
considering how to regulate. In other cases, a rule may have impacts that are particularly
difficult or impossible to quantify or assign a monetary value to, such as impacts on dignity,
equity, and fairness. In those cases, discussing the impacts qualitatively may provide valuable
insight to the agency, even if the agency is not able to put a dollar figure on the impact.
Who can submit public comments?
Absolutely anyone can submit a public comment on an agency’s proposed regulation. You do not
have to be an academic, expert, or even someone who knows all of the ins and outs of the policy at
hand. If you have something to say and think that your perspective could constructively add to the
conversation, please comment.
In addition to individuals, a variety of groups and associations often provide comments, including
business groups, unions, religious organizations, privacy advocates, environmental policy advocates,
and others.
3

The perspective of state, local, tribal, and territorial (SLTT) governments also can be very valuable in
understanding any interaction of Federal requirements with SLTT government requirements and
policies. That perspective may also help the agency identify whether the rule will have any
disproportionate regional impacts.
And technical experts and practitioners can offer important insight into how the rule functions in
practice. Even if a technical expert is commenting as a generalist, they can provide helpful
reflections on the agency’s assumptions, the rigor of studies on which the agency has based its
analyses, and potential alternative sources of information for the agency to consider.
What does an effective comment look like?
For each of the above groups, a useful comment might look different.
Private Individuals:
Comments that reflect the perspective of individual persons are valuable in several ways: 1) they
have the potential to show the agency unique situations that it has not yet contemplated in its
evaluation of the policy; 2) the individual can then explain how that unique situation will impact
their own behavior in response to the proposed policy change; and 3) they can express judgments on
the policy that speak to their general opinion of whether the agency is heading in the right direction.
However, simply stating that you support or oppose a policy is not as persuasive as
explaining how the policy would positively or negatively affect your specific situation. Even
when agencies receive hundreds or thousands of comments opposing or supporting a policy, if
those comments simply state preferences without providing relevant information or evidence, they
are less likely to affect agency decision-making. Similarly, multiple identical comments are not likely
to be more persuasive than if the comment had been sent only once.
Groups and Associations:
Groups and associations can aggregate the concerns and experiences of their members to paint a
broader picture of the potential impacts of the proposed policy. They can direct agencies to public
data sources to help them better analyze the costs and benefits of their actions or provide their own
data. These groups can also make value-based arguments on behalf of their members.
These groups also play an important role in making sure their members and those they advocate on
behalf of are aware of a potential policy change. Many individual commenters may only have known
that there was an opportunity to comment on a rule because a group or association notified them
and encouraged them to share their experience.
Technical Experts and Practitioners:
Experts in the field can present helpful data, whether from their own research or that of others in
their field. They may also present expert analysis on alternate ways a regulation could be designed.
4

For example, they could draw from different sources written on a topic and combine them together
to provide a perspective and a potential solution an agency may not have considered.
State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial (SLTT) governments:
SLTT governments can provide helpful insight into disparate impacts a rule may have, given the
unique characteristics of their area—for example, the geography, environment, makeup of the
population, tradition and local culture, or the particulars of the local economy. SLTT governments
can provide data and insight regarding the impacts a rule could have on their residents or
environment. SLTT governments should keep in mind, however, that agencies are still primarily
working to analyze the impacts on the entire country. Agencies writing the rule may not be able to
utilize data from a locality for the primary analysis if that data cannot be scaled to inform the
country-wide impacts of the proposal.
5

Example: Proposal to Require Sidewalks to Include Tactile Pavers
Let’s use a hypothetical example to explain how to provide more effective comments: the
government is proposing a policy that would require sidewalks to include tactile pavers (such as
molded bumps or ridges in the concrete) to alert people who are blind or visually impaired that a
street crossing or a hazardous drop-off is approaching. The government releases a proposal that
includes specifications regarding the height and distance between the individual “bumps” (tactile
paver domes) on the paver itself.
Effective comments could come from a variety of perspectives:
Commenter A is a visually impaired person who has really found tactile pavers to be key in
improving her mobility and her ability to get around the city safely and confidently. Her world has
expanded considerably since her city implemented tactile pavers and her comment thanks the
agency for pursuing the requirement more broadly to help other visually impaired persons, too.
Commenter B is a man who uses a wheelchair. He provides a comment explaining that he
understands the desired impact and is glad that the pavers exist to help increase safe mobility for
the visually impaired. However, he notes that if the tactile pavers are spaced together too closely, it
makes it difficult for him to get from the road to the sidewalk and vice versa because the pavers
slow down the momentum of his wheelchair. The wheelchair wheels get stuck in the grooves of
the tactile pavers and as result, sometimes he even falls out of his wheelchair. So, he points out
that while the policy is meant to ease burdens for one group with unique needs, it could negatively
impact another group with different needs if not implemented with both sets of needs in mind.
Commenter C frequently wears high heels in a professional setting downtown. Her comment
relays that she has had some bad experiences with the tactile pavers in those shoes. In fact, once,
her heel hit the side of a paver dome and she slipped sideways, severely twisting her ankle in the
process. She had to use crutches for a month and now she has to factor in additional time when
traveling so that she can wear flats to the building and change shoes before she gets there. This is
a cost that the agency could consider in its economic analysis, and the agency could consider it as
a greater impact on women than on men due to cultural norms regarding footwear.
Commenter D is a company that installs tactile pavers on sidewalks. Based on its years of
experience, its comment provides a perspective on the ideal distance that tactile paver tiles should
be installed from the curb to minimize falls. It also weighs in on the parameter the agency
proposed regarding the distance between individual paver domes and notes that if they are too
close together, they can create issues for wheelchairs, roller blades, and other thin wheels. The
company also suggests a certain type of materials to use as pavers to reduce the likelihood that the
pavers obstruct wheelchairs or hand trucks carrying heavy boxes.
6

Appendix: The Mechanics of the Public Comment Process
In order to have your voice heard in the rulemaking process, there are a few steps you will need to
take. First, you will need to identify the Federal regulation on which you are interested in providing
your views. Second, you will need to prepare an effective comment (as explained above). Third, you
will need to submit your comment on the right website when the proposed regulation is published
for public feedback.
Where can I find what agency regulations are out for public comment?
The Federal Register (federalregister.gov)—the official journal of the Federal government—is a
helpful resource for determining what agency regulations are out for public comment. There are
primarily two types of regulatory documents in the Federal Register that you can comment on:
notices and proposed rules. Agencies sometimes issue a notice, such as an “advance notice of
proposed rulemaking” (ANPRM) or a “request for information,” to formally request input from the
public on a specific policy they are considering developing into a regulation even before it is issued
as a proposed rule. A “proposed rule” or “notice of proposed rulemaking” (NPRM) is the stage of
rulemaking during which agencies formally open proposed rules to public comment. To find notices
and proposed rules, go to federalregister.gov, where, by using the search bar on the home page, you
can filter the documents in the current issue to view notices or proposed rules. You can also search
for a specific rule using a keyword, Regulation Identifier Number (RIN), or agency name.
~ :: sections • 0 Browse • ~ search • ~ Reader Aids • JI. My FR • I Search Documents O.I
FEDERAL REGISTER
~~
NAl IONAL The Daily Journal of the United States Government
ARCHIVFS
Monday, July 1st ■
133 documents from 58 agencies (390 Pages)
108 Notices 1 Presidential Document 6 Proposed Rules 18 Rules
2 Significant Documents
Once you’ve selected a document you will be able to read the full proposal and see important
information you will need to submit an effective comment on time. The preamble of the proposed
rule identifies the date by which comments must be submitted for the agency to consider them. See
sample language below.
DATES:
The Depattment of State will accept comments until July 31, 2024.
7

How do I submit public comments on a notice or a proposed rule?
There are two main ways to submit comments online:
(1) Look for a notice or proposed regulation on federalregister.gov that is currently out for public
comment as described above. Click on “Submit a formal comment” at the top right-hand
corner.
FEDERAL REGISTER
NATIONAL The Daily Journal of the United States Government
ARCHIVfS
(§) Proposed Rule ■
Emergency Response Standard
A Proposed Rule by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration on 06/11/2024 ~ ..
• Comments on this document are being accepted at Regulations.gov. F•=\HHHIMll+•Hili•~
1
26 comments received. View posted comments
(2) Regulations.gov is the official site used to submit public comments on most notices and
proposed rules. Regardless of where regulations stand in the rulemaking process, they have a
docket folder, containing all of the agency’s relevant rulemaking materials (e.g., the proposed
rule, studies on the rule, supporting documents, public comments, hearing notices, extensions
of comment period, and eventually, the final rule), and most regulatory documents published in
the Federal Register will link to a docket folder at Regulations.gov. Regulations.gov also has a
section containing short summaries of regulations.
To submit a public comment through Regulations.gov, copy and paste the docket number listed
in the “Document Details” tab on the left-hand side of the notice or proposed regulation
published in the Federal Register (see below graphic) into the search bar on Regulations.gov,
click on the result (a regulatory document should come up), then click “Comment”. You can
choose to type your comment directly into the text box provided or upload another file.
8

Minimum Standards for Driver's Licenses and Identification Cards
Acceptable by Federal Agencies for Official Purposes; Phased Approach
for Card-Based Enforcement
A Proposed Rule by the Transportation Security Administration on 09/12/2024
• This document has a comment period that ends in 5 days. (10/15/2024) SUBMIT A PUBLIC COMMENT
6784 comments received. View posted comments
~ 141Hl&1ii3'11[1!3'ftla l♦J+&fHNIJl+O·Bif&
!El
PDF
....aii.. 141H■Miia'i+!:IP 11+13'1'!3',iU,Mif
~ Document
...,., Details
Agencies: Department of Homeland Security
~,m• D Dao tc eu sm ent
Agency/Docket Number:
T Dr oa cn ks ep
t
o Nrt oa .t Tio Sn
A
S -2e 0c 2u 3ri -t 0y
0
A 0d 3m inistration
Iii CFR: 6 CFR 37
Table of Document Citation: 89 FR 74137 Cl
Contents
Document Number: 2024-20616 Cl
Document Type: Proposed Rule
• Public Pages: 74137-74167 (25 pages)
Comments
Publication Date: 09/12/2024
/4 Regulations.gov RIN: 1652-AA77
Data --...,...=:-r.--:=:-=-a:=~~.....,,,.......--r,.,...~--------------------
~ Sharing
SUMMARY:
iei Print
~ Document
statistics a
~ Other Formats
I•~ -' IP nu sb pl eic c ti. on
DATES:
Regulations.gov
SUPPORT
Your Voice in Federal Decision Making
TSA-2023-0003 X Search
9

View Docket
Im PROPOSED RULE < Share ... © Comment Period Ends: 5 Days
Minimum Standards for Driver's Licenses and Identification Cards Acceptable by Federal Agencies for
Official Purposes: Phased Approach for Card-Based Enforcement
Posted by the Transportation Security Administration on Sep 12, 2024
-+F++i::i::11:ld
Alternatively, you can also search for notices or proposed rules currently open for comment by
directly going to Regulations.gov. You can find a rule on Regulations.gov by entering a keyword,
title, or document number in the search area on the homepage and clicking the “Search” button.
Search Results will display on the Document browser tab where you can narrow your results with
the filters on the screen. Once you find the regulation, click its title to view its Document Details
page.
10