Selected fragments from a 17-page “privacy” describing how UHC collects more data than
FBI.
https://www.healthsafe-id.com/rt/register/ucard/en/credentials
This Privacy Policy is not intended to and does not create any contractual or other legal rights in
or on behalf of any party.
Simply speaking, it is worthless trash. UHC admits that it does not have legal rights about
anything.
You may limit the Information you provide or make available to us if you want to
Limit how? By doing what?
In addition to the Information identified above, we may collect the following Information:
User files stored on your device, like calendars, photos, and videos.
SAY WHAT? Since when UHC has any right or need to know what is stored on anyone’s device?
The common language is inappropriate here. UHC just confirmed above that it has no legal
right to anything, less private info on anyone’s device. No one should ever tolerate such fascist
attitude.
Activity, Fitness and Health Information Data:
· Sleep Data;
· Nutrition Data;
· Mindfulness Data
This arrogant Nazi sadistic enterprise would have nerve to decide my mindfulness level, how
much I sleep and with whom. I can’t wait until lawyers for UHC would get a free vacation at
GITMO.
Google has determined that certain applications are subject to their COVID-19 applications
requirements
Phony COVID is long gone. Nobody gives a virus for whatever Google determined as Google is
not a medical authority. Nowhere does it say why UHC takes direct orders from Google.
We may use your Information:
To respond to an email
select how you would like to receive
Our Online Services may permit you to
certain communications.
You can view and update your communication preferences
in your Account/Profile settings after logging into the Online Services.
the
We gather Activity Information about you to improve the quality of our services, such as
best method and time to contact you
.
Gotcha. UHC said it, not me. Yet arrogant, criminal bully UHC does
not respond to any email about anything. CALL or DIE.

We may use Information to contact you through any contact information you provide through
our Online Services, including any email address, telephone number, cell phone number, or fax
number.
No, dear, you may not choose for me which method of communication I want.
These electronic communications may contain protected health information. You acknowledge
and accept that such communications may be sent unencrypted and there is some risk of
disclosure or interception of the contents of these communications.
UnitedDeathcare openly admitted violating HIPAA and continue on acting out like Gestapo
thug. I do not accept it: then what? I cannot have UHC? (All other insurances and companies
are now one and the same.)
If you need additional assistance in opting out of a communication, please Contact Us for
assistance.
I did it many times and have a documented proof of it.
…to deliver targeted advertisements to you.
No such thing exists like targeted ad. Don’t need any ads. I never spent one penny on ads in my
lifetime and will never patronize this sick idea of pathological sale hysteria.
see youradchoices.com/control, and to opt-out of such ad networks' and services' advertising
practices, go to optout.aboutads.info and optout.networkadvertising.org/.
THIS IS CONSUMER FRAUD. I spent hours on doing unsubscription from public computers just
to have screenshots and provable documents that unsubscribing is entirely impossible. UHC is a
lying liar.
· Assisting users experiencing problems with our services
It never once happened. UHC is lying on record. CALL or DIE.
You may have access to your Individual Health Record (IHR) via this Online Service.
HOW?
We encourage you to read, share, follow us and provide commentary on Facebook®, Twitter®,
Pinterest®, Instagram® and other social media sites ("Social Media Site").
This lowlife UHC could read, write and respond to anything on social networks, but not by direct
email.
For Community Plans
UnitedHealthcare
Privacy Office
MN017-E300
PO Box 1459
Minneapolis, MN 554400
What is “community?” I asked many times and got no answer.
ZIP – 6 digits?