HHS CMS ASTP/ONC June 16, 2025
Re: CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem, CMS-0042-NC, RIN 0938-AV68
Drs. Mehmet Oz and Thomas Keane:
J P Systems, Inc. (JPSys) is pleased to provide information regarding the Health Technology
Ecosystem. JPSys is a certified Woman Owned Small Business founded in 1983 to serve Federal
IT data management needs. We provide unique professional services in the Healthcare IT
ecosystem specializing in Federal Health Informatics, Clinical Terminologies, clinical data quality
improvement, and healthcare policy and strategy support. We bridge the gap between the medical
and IT communities, translating requirements into designs for interoperability and managing
clinical data for stakeholders.
Our responses are informed by our experience as a prime contractor with over $154 million in
Federal contract awards, providing clinical data management and terminology standards expertise
to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Health Administration (VHA).
We help standardize clinical data and improve clinical data quality and provide services for
mapping existing VHA systems and data to HL7 FHIR®’s data elements.
We participate in the Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine Clinical Terms (SNOMED CT) and
Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Standards Development
Organizations to bring new term requirements and propose harmonization efforts.
Through these efforts, we have gained expertise in TECFA, USCDI, Clinical Quality Language
(CQL), and HL7 FHIR APIs.
Better data enables better patient care for better patient outcomes.
If you have any questions or wish to engage in further conversation, please reach out to Jay Lyle
at Jay.Lyle@JPSys.com.
Sincerely,
Jackie Mulrooney
Founder and President
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 1

TD-3.c. Regarding digital identity implementation: What impact would mandatory use of
the OpenID Connect identity protocol have?
A digital ID infrastructure could facilitate testable patient matching without the use of a centrally
managed national identifier. It should be piloted.
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available
APIs over proprietary APIs?
We would suggest that you define the blueprint and incentivize it, as was done with HITECH
ACT Meaningful Use and 21st Century Cures Act.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
A nationwide directory of endpoints would enable the use of FHIR as an API rather than simply
a payload data model.
A TEFCA Recognized Coordinating Entity (RCE) should publish and control it.
Payers/Providers should pay a subscription fee or some other mechanism as it will greatly relieve
their systems from an expensive, heavy maintenance and curation burden.
TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform?
TEFCA offers centralized coordination and conformance with national, standards-based data-
exchange networks.
It also offers the possibility of consistent quality assessment across the ecosystem.
TD-6.b. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that should be
consolidated?
National Council for Prescription Drug Programs (NCPDP), Accredited Standards Committee
X12 (X12) and other specifications have some redundancies with FHIR. Where these
redundancies exist, CMS can play a role in coordinating consensus. A further study of this
question may be of value.
CMS should also support current efforts to define standard maps for translating between
Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture (C-CDA) and FHIR.
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are its
limitations?
USCDI is intended to support interoperability by specifying a threshold set of data elements that
systems must support.
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 2

1. It is technology agnostic. It is cited as a source of requirements by both Consolidated Clinical
Document Architecture (C-CDA) and US Core FHIR specifications.
2. It is intended to specify only elements for which there are existing standards assets and some
level of consensus.
3. It is a living specification and evolves every year.
4. It has provided a common framework for exchange of data via US Core in FHIR.
By providing a consistent set of business requirements for technical specifications, USCDI has
enhanced the ability of standards designers to prioritize their work, and it provides a baseline for
aligning different standards. It is a very beneficial thing for standards designers.
The limitations of USCDI include:
1. The large number of different information models in the current environment.
2. USCDI only specifies elements that have been suggested by health IT stakeholders for a future
version.
3. USCDI elements are only included for which there is sufficient existing standardization that
technical specifications can implement without having to invent semantic solutions.
TD-7.a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
USCDI does not contain all the data elements for an entire EHR to be fully interoperable.
USCDI only contains the elements that have been suggested by health IT stakeholders and
implemented broadly. Not all desired elements may be in USCDI; this is dependent on the use
case for which data interoperability is necessitated and the perceived maturity of the element. We
recommend providing methods or incentives for maturing data elements that are level 2 or lower
and their related standards so a larger portion of EHR data can be interoperable.
TD-7.b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the way
it is utilized?
Rather than utilizing a data model, USCDI was initially based on a common clinical data set,
with future versions including what health IT stakeholders have submitted for inclusion.
Additionally, some of the data elements have been defined at a lower level, while others have
been defined at a higher level. For example, USCDI v1 started with Substance (Medication) and
Substance (Drug Class) for Allergies and Intolerance. USCDI v4 introduced Substance (Non-
Medication) for Allergies and Intolerance, but “non-medication” is not at the lowest level as
“non-medication” could be environmental substances or food substances; both these types of
substances have very different uses in a healthcare setting. Another example of data at a varying
level is Care Plan. This is a broad term that could represent an unstructured note or a data class
with a structured set of data elements.
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 3

TD-7.c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping
challenges? How could such challenges be addressed?
USCDI should continue to evolve as consensus is built on remaining data elements.
Many items in USCDI differ in their level of granularity, and this can cause confusion in efforts
to construct downstream specifications. Because USCDI defines requirements, not solutions, a
certain amount of this is unavoidable, but the addition of requirements should undergo
harmonization with existing content in both USCDI and USCDI+, and they should be specified
at the lowest feasible level. Otherwise, we will continue to see unacknowledged overlap across
documented requirements and variability in the specificity available to implementers. The
granularity should be studied further and recommendations made by an expert Medical
Terminologist.
National Council for Prescription Drug Programs (NCPDP), Accredited Standards Committee
X12 (X12) and other specifications have some redundancies with FHIR. Where these
redundancies exist, CMS can play a role in coordinating consensus. CMS should also support
current efforts to define standard maps for translating between C-CDA and FHIR.
TD-7.d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but
less structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more processing
by the receiver?
Language models can be extremely useful in analyzing and classifying instance data. They
should also be used to assist in the process of defining the classifications to be used in analyzing
instance data. But the information models and terminologies themselves must be defined by
human beings if they are to be reliably recognized and managed by human beings. This
governance requirement introduces significant overhead and, at least in the near term, will
impede interoperability.
TD-9.a. Regarding certification of health IT: What are the benefits of redefining
certification to prioritize API-enabled capabilities over software functionality?
Software functionality should be driven by the vendors’ business and providers’ requirements.
Government constraint is necessary at the interface, where the profit motive incentivizes vendors
to limit interoperability.
If the goal is for data to be interoperable, an API that can be utilized to share data is far more
beneficial than an individual system’s functionality.
TD-9.b. What would be the drawbacks?
There are no drawbacks.
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 4

TD-9.c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certification criteria to require APIs to
consistently support exchanging data from all aspects of the patient’s chart (for example,
faxed records, free text, discrete data)?
Medical data exhibits a great deal of variability, which is why USCDI is a subset of Electronic
Health Information (EHI). EHI has a ‘very long tail,’ meaning that there is a lot of data spread
across a very large set of very small clinical categories.
The beauty of the structured record is that it can be communicated with confidence in predictable
ways. These channels support quality monitoring, and they allow the data to be presented in
consistent ways to providers and to Clinical Decision Support (CDS) routines.
The problem is that there may be relevant information not addressed in the structured data. EHI
covers (almost) everything else. Since EHI is covered by information blocking regulation, it
must be transmitted, but the form of transmission is undefined.
Unstructured data requires either an extensive investment of provider time or use of LLMs for
processing. Investments will be necessary in both maturing AI tooling and in expanding USCDI.
However, this does not mean that stewardship of the record should be transferred wholesale to
AI. Humans are responsible for the decisions, and they must retain responsibility for
understanding the information.
The use of AI to analyze unstructured data brings significant challenges, primarily around quality
assurance and privacy. LLMs cannot be used until they can be used responsibly. To be clear, we
are not anti-AI. It is a tool, not a panacea, which must be used in a properly governed manner.
TD-9.d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to
API-based data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
CMS should incentivize API-based data requests as CMS did with its incentives for HITECH
ACT Meaningful Use and 21st Century Cures Act compliance. Provide the blueprint and
monetize both an incentive and financial penalty for non-compliance. Penalties should be
minimal.
TD-9.e. How could EHRs capable of bulk data transfer be used to reduce the burden on
providers for reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are needed to
show benefit? What concerns are there with this approach?
Quality measures should be constructed with the data available in the EHR or EHRs modified to
support the data elements necessary. The burden should not be on providers, but on EHR vendors
to have capabilities to send data elements that are necessary for quality reporting.
Quality measure development efforts should be coordinated with Clinical Decision Support
(CDS) and interoperability specifications, as supported by current HL7 direction around FHIR
and Clinical Quality Language (CQL).
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 5

TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification
Program, what further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implement the 21st Century
Cures Act’s API condition of certification (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv)) that requires a
developer’s APIs to allow health information to be accessed, exchanged, and used without
special effort, including providing access to all data elements of a patient’s electronic health
record to the extent permissible under applicable privacy laws?
To support data access without special effort, CMS should promote data and terminology
standards in EHR interoperability functions; support standard mappings of existing specifications
(i.e., Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture (C-CDA) and FHIR).
Developer APIs need a standard way to interface with provider applications. This task can be
supported with the FHIR data standard, but some key requirements for efficient implementation
include:
• Agreement on security technologies (e.g., SMART on FHIR use of OAuth)
• Agreement on security scope definitions
• Agreement on scope of HIPAA requirements and transparency about where they end;
ability for stakeholders to 'opt in'
• National (not funded by individual private firms) registries for searching, finding, and
retrieving patient health records
• Agreement on standard algorithms for patient matching and transparency about which
one is used
• Agreement on retrieval standards (volumes, domain-specific timeframes, pertinent
negatives)
• Agreement on data quality expectations and processes for escalation and remediation of
issues
• US Realm refinement of core FHIR resources and operations to support testably specific
interfaces
Standards currently support exchange, but the information exchanged only has value if it has
quality. One requirement is to reduce the burden by removing low-value information, e.g., by
putting timeframes on the respective domains. For example, allergies are relevant long term, but
medication administrations cease to be clinically relevant after a period of time. Another critical
factor in managing cognitive load is de-duplication: if all ten facilities that have treated a patient
know a particular fact, then a national query will return that fact ten times. Technology must be
able to recognize and filter redundant information by accurately consolidating it.
For data that is relevant, quality means ensuring that it is correctly represented in the standard, so
that similar facts can be presented consistently (both to providers and to Clinical Decision
Support logic) and outliers can be appropriately flagged.
CMS should institute data quality requirements for real-world data, beyond EHR certification
testing. Data should be rated as to how usable and reliable it is for clinical decision support on a
quantitative scale. This has yet to be defined.
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 6

TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products certified through
the ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the capability to perform
an electronic health information export or ‘‘EHI export’’ for a single patient as well as for
patient populations (45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)). Such health IT developers are also required
to publicly describe the format of the EHI export. Notably, how EHI export was
accomplished was left entirely to the health IT developer. Now that this capability has been
in production for over a year, CMS and ASTP/ONC seek input on the following:
TD-11.a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requirements for
EHI export?
USCDI should continue to evolve, but yes, consensus should be developed for exporting
unstructured data not addressed by USCDI.
Standards currently support exchange, but the information exchanged only has value if it has
quality. One requirement is to reduce the burden by removing low-value information, e.g., by
putting timeframes on the respective domains. Allergies are relevant forever; medication
administrations cease to be clinically relevant after a period of time. Another critical factor in
managing cognitive load is de-duplication: if all ten facilities that have treated a patient know a
particular fact, then a national query will return that fact ten times. Technology must be able to
recognize and filter redundant information.
For data that is relevant, quality means ensuring that it is correctly represented in the standard, so
that similar facts can be presented consistently (both to providers and to Clinical Decision
Support logic) and outliers can be appropriately flagged.
CMS should institute data quality requirements for real-world data, beyond EHR certification
testing. Data should be rated as to how usable and reliable it is for clinical decision support on a
quantitative scale. This has yet to be defined.
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what criteria
or metrics should CMS consider?
Yes, however CMS must ensure data quality. High data quality is necessary for Clinical Decision
Support and for coordinating care across facilities.
TD-15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs:
TD-15.a. How would increased use of bulk FHIR improve use cases and data flow?
Increased use of bulk FHIR could support researchers and training of LLMs. Bulk FHIR is
appropriate for batch jobs, and not so much transactional queries. Bulk or batched HL7 FHIR R4
messages may be sent asynchronously and processed off-hours, reducing the impact on
transactional databases and processing systems. This should be the approach to consuming
historical records for reporting and research purposes (i.e., not real time transactional records).
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 7

TD-15.b. What are the potential disadvantages of their use?
Bulk FHIR APIs may not allow real-time access to data as they are geared towards batch
processing.
TD-16. What are the tradeoffs of maintaining point-to-point models vs. shared network
infrastructure?
FHIR is based on a RESTful paradigm that includes the use of URIs to identify resources. These
URIs identify data sources, and they imply assumptions about their context of use: they are,
ideally, navigable. When FHIR data is transferred over a multi-point network rather than via a
point-to-point HTTP interaction, these URLs are no longer navigable. For document-like
transfers of static payloads, this is not a major problem, but for API functionality, including
search, the intervening network severs the navigability and semantics of the URL, blocking API
functionality.
Network-facilitated exchange remains a great baseline for continuity of care, but additional
capabilities, including Clinical Decision Support (CDS) and the ability to stage drill-down data
requests, will require the full API.
If TEFCA were to provide efficient connectivity infrastructure, then providers could use the
point-to-point architecture of FHIR to realize the functional value of the API. This infrastructure
would include, at a high level, patient search and user authentication and authorization to
information sources.
The U.S. should continue to support refinement of national implementation guides to facilitate
interoperability.
TD-16.a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participation?
Yes, if appropriately implemented.
TD-16.b. What changes would improve alignment (for example, API unification, reciprocal
access)?
If TEFCA were to provide efficient connectivity infrastructure, then providers could use the
point-to-point architecture of FHIR to realize the functional value of the API. This infrastructure
would include, at a high level, patient search and user authentication and authorization to
information sources.
The U.S. should continue to support refinement of national implementation guides to facilitate
interoperability.
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 8

TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in
ensuring viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough supply and
demand, that results in usage and outcomes?
a) Fund the public infrastructure
The public infrastructure could include aspects such as patient registries, end point lookup and
security authorizations.. This infrastructure would include, at a high level, patient search and user
authentication and authorization to information sources. If TEFCA were to provide efficient
connectivity infrastructure, then providers could use the point-to-point architecture of FHIR to
realize the functional value of the API.
The U.S. should continue to support refinement of national implementation guides to facilitate
interoperability.
b) Use incentives to encourage funded providers to use it.
CMS can financially incentivize providers and payers using the same incentive strategy which
was used for HITECH ACT Meaningful Use and 21st Century Cures Act. Meaningful Use
compliance. Provide the blueprint for standards-based interoperable exchange (e.g., CDC
Messaging Schema using HL7 FHIR R4 rather than HL7 2.x and SOAP rather than REST).
Define concrete stages and pay for production-proven success. One additional consideration is to
avoid putting further burdens on small providers by requiring data from them which costs them
money for which they do not receive adequate compensation.
CMS RFI 2025-08701 Health Technology Ecosystem Page 9