Cen ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services
(CMS) Request for Information (RFI) |
Health Technology Ecosystem
June 16, 2025

Health Technology Ecosystem | 06/16/2025
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction .................................................................................................. 1
BCG response to select RFI questions .................................................................. 1
Patients & Caregivers # PC-12: What are the most valuable operational health data
use cases for patients and caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient
care navigation or eliminate barriers to competition among providers or both? ........ 1
Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks #TD-1: What short term (in the
next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate developer interest in
building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers?.............. 2
Value Based Care Organizations # VB-3: What are essential health IT capabilities for
value-based care arrangements? ..................................................................... 3
Appendices: Referenced BCG articles .................................................................. 5
PAGE | ii

Health Technology Ecosystem | 06/16/2025
Introduction
BCG applauds CMS and HHS for seeking public input on this important initiative to improve
health technology and empower Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers. We welcome the
agency’s commitment to engaging a broad range of stakeholders and are pleased to contribute
perspectives on three of the key questions outlined in the Request for Information (RFI). We
hope our input supports CMS in designing forward-looking strategies that enhance digital access
and data interoperability, strengthen value-based care, foster innovation, and support cost
compression across the Medicare and broader healthcare ecosystem.
BCG response to select RFI questions
Patients & Caregivers # PC-12: What are the most valuable operational health data use cases
for patients and caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or
eliminate barriers to competition among providers or both?
a. Examples may include the following:
1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods.
2) Viewing provider schedule availability.
3) Using third-party apps for appointment management.
4) Accessing patient-facing quality metrics.
5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs.
b. What use cases are possible today?
c. What should be possible in the near future?
d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve?
Generative AI and digital health innovations are actively addressing a range of key patient and
caregiver use cases, such as care navigation and access to provider services. From BCG’s
experience serving leaders and innovators in the healthcare industry, we know AI chatbots and
virtual assistants are already used to triage patient needs and deliver health guidance, with many
early adopters taking “stepping stone” approaches to test new capabilities – like AI co-pilots for
“nurse line” staff – that support greater patient participation in their care journey while
maintaining human oversight and quality assurance. Additionally, at-home diagnostic solutions
are streamlining appointment logistics by enabling remote diagnostics and asynchronous
workflows, benefitting harder to reach patient populations, such as those in rural settings. Smart
implants and continuous monitoring devices are also advancing chronic disease management,
giving patients more control while feeding critical data to caregivers for proactive interventions.
Looking ahead, more sophisticated digital ecosystems are expected to automate entire patient
episodes—from intake through treatment—enhancing both care coordination and operational
efficiency. Interoperable systems and secure data-sharing frameworks will continue to be critical
to allow for seamless data exchange across providers, improving transparency and enabling the
delivery of real-time, personalized insights to patients and caregivers alike. Meanwhile, future
innovations like vocal biomarkers and AI-driven diagnostics offer promise for early detection
and tailored care. To drive these advancements, it will be critical that the healthcare industry
works together with CMS to effectively mitigate potential risks – biased outputs, false and
opaque results, privacy concerns, and overreliance – and create an environment of regulatory
clarity that encourages both industry innovation and patient trust. By harnessing these emerging
Page | 1

Health Technology Ecosystem | 06/16/2025
capabilities, we can shift the health care ecosystem toward proactive, data-driven health systems
designed around the needs of both patients and caregivers.
BCG has experience partnering with industry and digital health leaders across the ecosystem to
observe and shape how these use cases play out in real time. Please see several perspectives on
this topic in Appendix A (How Digital and AI Will Reshape Health Care in 2025) and Appendix
B (Generative AI Will Transform Health Care Sooner Than You Think).
Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks #TD-1: What short term (in the next 2
years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate developer interest in building digital
health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers?
While there are important policy and regulatory levers CMS can apply to shape the broader
digital health ecosystem, a complementary – and similarly critical – set of opportunities lies in
how CMS manages its own role as a buyer and partner in developing digital health products for
Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers. CMS can further modernize its internal approach to
digital product development by adopting industry vendor management best practices that
emphasize engineering efficiency, agility, transparency, and accountability. One of the most
powerful tools in this regard is the establishment of a dedicated, independent product control
tower-like or “navigator” function – an objective third party composed of capable product
managers, IT architects, program-specific subject matter experts, and user-experience designers.
This capability enables an agency such as CMS to maximize its return on investment (ROI) and
drive operational cost compression by ensuring that product requirements align with the agency’s
strategy, are coordinated across components, and mitigate waste from cost overruns due to
misalignment. A skilled partner can serve as a trusted advisor to CMS and as a liaison with
vendors, bringing the right stakeholders to the right conversations at the right time to accelerate
better outcomes from the start of a transformation, while in parallel helping to build capabilities
from within for the agency to effectively manage ongoing delivery. Using this flexible approach,
the navigator function can serve as a cost-effective bridge between CMS and its vendors, helping
to define business cases, shape the roadmap, and support vendor negotiations and management
for digital health products (and even more broadly).
In our digital health transformation experience across public and private sectors, navigator-led
transformations result in significant improvements in project ROI, benefitting the taxpayer
through efficiency of federal dollars, timeliness, reduced waste, and improved government
services. Benefits include:
• 40% faster path to value from new capabilities
• 35% reduction of project scope
• 70% increased degree of standardization
• 35% higher transformation success rate
• 30- to 60-fold return from investing 5% of program budget in de-risking
This approach aligns with the evolution toward platform-based ecosystems, where value is
created through network effects and the exchange of products and services for mutual benefit. By
adopting the role of orchestrator, CMS can coordinate a broad set of participants—vendors,
caregivers, developers, and beneficiaries—into a cohesive and collaborative whole. This enables
Page | 2

Health Technology Ecosystem | 06/16/2025
CMS to combine aggregated supply and demand with high service levels and reduced friction,
creating the conditions for new multiparty solutions to emerge. Acting as a central node, CMS
can stimulate network effects by increasing the diversity and relevance of offerings while
maintaining best-in-class functionality, tailored user experiences, and transparent interfaces that
reduce barriers to participation. As with successful orchestrators in the private sector, CMS has
the opportunity to expand the impact of its digital efforts beyond individual transactions –
supporting a dynamic ecosystem that scales innovation, enhances partner contributions, and
delivers greater value to beneficiaries over time.
More on the strategic importance of the product control tower / navigator concept and other key
steps to deliver effective and efficient digital transformations for government agencies like CMS
can be found in a recent BCG publication, please see Appendix C (How Governments Can Keep
Digital Transformations on Time and on Budget). For additional perspectives on private sector
exemplars for platform-based ecosystem innovations, please see Appendix D (The Rise Of AI,
Platforms, And Ecosystems).
Value Based Care Organizations # VB-3: What are essential health IT capabilities for value-
based care arrangements?
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event notification,
data extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement, access to claims
data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device interoperability, or other
patient empowerment tools.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based
care arrangements?
We believe that IT capabilities – particularly data & analytics and new technologies such as
GenAI – are critical enablers for health payers and providers developing value-based care
arrangements (see Figure 1 below).
Page | 3

Health Technology Ecosystem | 06/16/2025
Figure 1. A Value-Based Care Framework for Health Insurers
Health care payers and providers must strengthen their technology foundations to successfully
advance value-based health care arrangements. Building a modern platform that enables real-
time, cross-functional insight is no longer optional. Healthcare organizations can develop an
augmented set of dashboards that use AI to generate actionable, cross-cutting insights across
programs and populations. These tools are essential for moving away from siloed, reactive
operations and toward more proactive, data-driven strategies that enable faster decision-making
and better outcomes. They empower organizations to gain greater control over cost and outcome
variability, help them to identify inefficiencies, and translate insights into actionable measures
that guide the design and execution of transformational value-based strategies.
Investment in emerging technologies can also directly enhance the value that patients experience
through the health system. New technologies like GenAI now make it feasible for payers and
providers to personalize communication and engagement with patients at scale in a way that can
help empower people to achieve their health goals and align financial incentives with health –
something previously prohibitively expensive. By prioritizing digital channels that address
patient pain points and provide personalized experiences, organizations have the opportunity to
improve access, engagement, and satisfaction. Additionally, by applying advanced analytics to
support robust provider management, insurers can negotiate rates more efficiently, design
treatment bundles, and establish clear governance to deliver the highest quality clinical care at an
acceptable cost. User-friendly digital platforms can also streamline case management and
improve outcomes by connecting patients and providers, enhancing the understanding of patient
needs and offering real-time support throughout the care journey.
For more information, please see Appendix E (Redefining Global Health Insurance Through
Value-Based Care).
Page | 4

Health Technology Ecosystem | 06/16/2025
Appendices: Referenced BCG articles
Appendix A: How Digital and AI Will Reshape Health Care in 2025
Appendix B: Generative AI Will Transform Health Care Sooner Than You Think
Appendix C: How Governments Can Keep Digital Transformations on Time and on Budget
Appendix D: The Rise Of AI, Platforms, And Ecosystems
Appendix E: Redefining Global Health Insurance Through Value-Based Care
Page | 5

APPENDIX A
How Digital and AI Will Reshape
Health Care in 2025
T
he definition of digital health is evolving. The era A growing number of individually tailored apps and digital
spurred on by the Covid-19 pandemic—think tele- platforms will give patients more control over their medical
medicine and digital therapeutics, which have strug- conditions, predict flare-ups, and suggest real-time interven-
gled to scale—is giving way to one defined by artificial tions. We expect consumers to increasingly rely on AI chat-
intelligence (AI) and solutions that strengthen the bond bots and virtual assistants for answers to health questions.
between health care professionals and patients in an
integrated manner, with appropriate economics to support Digital health will continue to offer solutions to address
them. gaps in women’s health care, including femtech innova-
tions to redesign traditional “hardware” used for women’s
We see this shift reflected in trends that experts across health (such as the speculum), with the female experience
BCG and BCG X anticipate will shape digital health in at the center. It’s a needed shift: A recent BCG X survey
2025. As AI matures, it is rapidly expanding possibilities for found that fewer than half of women respondents across
patients, providers, and health care organizations alike. the globe (41%) agreed that there are sufficient services to
New digital solutions are being leveraged to address gaps address their specific health concerns.
in care for chronic conditions such as heart failure, diabe-
tes, and mental health. And the growing influence of gener- We are also beginning to see a maturing of partnerships
ative AI (GenAI) on every aspect of health care—from between femtech health and wellness brands that can lead
personalized care to automated workflows—is a key theme to interoperable ecosystems that pool women’s health
for the upcoming year, as it was in 2024. data and ultimately drive improved health outcomes.
Let’s dive deeper into how we expect digital and AI solu- Provider Empowerment
tions to reshape health care in 2025. Providers will be empowered and enabled by digital tech-
nology as well. AI can provide the analytical muscle to
Patient Support process vast quantities of personal patient data, powering
This year, digital health tools will continue to transform highly personalized medical treatment tailored to individu-
patient care, improving their support and access. Smart als based on their unique health data from continuous
implants and wearable devices that allow providers to monitoring devices, lifestyle inputs, and individual genetics.
monitor patients’ cardiac activity, blood sugar levels, and This enables providers to adjust treatment dynamically
other biological functions in real time from remote loca- based on feedback in real time.
tions will enable better chronic disease management and
improve patients’ quality of life. As sleep continues to gain Artificial intelligence decision-making tools will become
attention as a crucial biomarker for overall well-being, mainstream in 2025, giving doctors immediate access to
health tech companies are creating more advanced, accu- evidence-based research and treatment guidelines. GenAI
rate sleep-tracking tools. applications will accelerate diagnoses and minimize diag-
nostic errors, while speeding the delivery of patient care
and more accurately predicting patient outcomes.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 1

Emergence of Ecosystems While GenAI continues to generate tremendous excite-
At the organizational level, our experts anticipate that the ment in the digital health care space, it’s not a panacea.
coming year will see an expansion of the use of AI to orga- Our experts recognize that some of these programs won’t
nize and automate entire workflows instead of just specific deliver anticipated results in 2025. When that happens, we
tasks. For example, rather than an AI tool that facilitates emphasize the importance of going back to the basics:
physician note-taking or scheduling, intelligent agents will focusing on business outcomes and tracking key perfor-
automate an entire patient episode of care, from intake mance indicators. In this way, AI failures can drive more
through treatment plan. Working across departments, AI focused, sustainable transformation in the long term.
programs will learn as they go, improving efficiency and
outcomes at both the patient and system level. Health Clearly, 2025 promises to be a transformative year.
systems will benefit, but so will other types of health care We’re excited to see how AI and more digital solutions
organizations such as pharmaceutical companies, where reshape health care.
GenAI can transform key activities such as clinical trials
and regulatory submissions.
AI-driven data processing will also allow access to data that
has until now been considered too disorganized to be useful,
such as medical records, clinical notes, and physician/
patient interaction information. Clinicians, payers, and
drug companies alike will be able to draw out actionable
insights from these data sets to improve patient care and
outcomes. At the same time, expanded access will en-
hance different systems’ ability to interact with one anoth-
er, facilitating more seamless collaboration.
2 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

“With AI-driven solutions, wearable devices, and
digital triaging tools, patients are no longer passive
participants in their care but active managers of their
health journey.”
Ashkan Afkhami
Managing Director and
Senior Partner
Every patient will soon have the tools to find the right By capturing, analyzing, and applying data to drive better
care, support, and treatment tailored to their unique treatments, therapies, and operational efficiency, health
needs. We’re at a tipping point in patient care. With AI-driven care organizations will realize their true potential.
platforms, wearable devices, and digital triaging tools, patients By leveraging real-time insights and advanced analytics,
are no longer passive participants in their care but active man- organizations can detect diseases earlier, streamline care
agers of their health journey. Technology is closing critical gaps pathways, and optimize operations. Interoperable systems
in care, particularly in underserved communities, by enabling and secure data-sharing frameworks are critical for achieving
timely guidance, remote consultations, and personalized care these outcomes, ensuring data can flow seamlessly across
plans. These tools empower patients to take charge of their stakeholders. As we move forward, ethical AI frameworks and
health and promote a seamless, personalized experience that integrated data strategies will be the catalysts for change,
meets them wherever they are—whether at home, in the clinic, transforming health care into a precision-driven, efficient,
or on the go. and impactful ecosystem.
Digital health solutions that simplify workflows,
optimize resources, and improve patient monitoring
will enable clinicians to deliver continuous,
high-quality care. AI-assisted technologies are helping to
address capacity challenges, reduce diagnostic turnaround
times, and improve treatment accuracy. Similarly, deci-
sion-support tools and real-time analytics are enabling
smarter, safer care delivery. By integrating remote patient
monitoring, automation, and predictive analytics, health
care professionals can focus on what matters most: treat-
ing and supporting patients beyond the clinic walls. This
shift will improve efficiency and empower clinicians to
deliver proactive, patient-centered care.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 3

“Digital tools can help bridge R&D and access gaps,
driving equity in health care for women.”
Johanna Benesty
Managing Director and
Senior Partner
Women continue to face barriers to accessing health To fully harness digital health’s potential in low- and
care. Many factors contribute to lack of access, even in middle-income countries (LMICs), the health care
high-income countries—including economic disparities, ecosystem must overcome several challenges. Scaling
limited R&D on women-specific health, and systemic bias- digital health initiatives effectively remains a primary hurdle
es. For instance, 26% of US women delay care due to cost. because many digital solutions that show promise in pilot
For many low-income women, this limits access to essen- stages struggle with long-term sustainability across diverse
tial reproductive health services. Additionally, lack of R&D regions. Investment in digital infrastructure, talent develop-
on women’s conditions like endometriosis or menopause ment, and skills training is essential, as health care workers in
leads to delayed diagnoses and inadequate treatment. LMICs often lack the technical training needed to operate and
Digital health offers solutions to address these gaps. support digital health tools. Moreover, ethical considerations,
Telehealth has expanded access to underserved areas, and especially regarding AI use, are paramount. Without clear
virtual consultations are proven to support women in rural guidelines and regulatory frameworks, AI risks exacerbating
areas who need mental health services. Health apps such health inequities rather than reducing them. Cultural adapta-
as Eve and Flo collect critical health data about women’s tion and community trust in these technologies are also critical,
menstrual cycles and ovulation, advancing research on requiring a user-centered approach that aligns digital health
women’s health and creating awareness. And AI can help solutions with local values and health care practices. Address-
reduce the cost of R&D on target groups. These digital ing these challenges will be key to advancing equitable access
tools can help bridge R&D and access gaps, driving equity to health care in LMICs through digital innovation.
in health care for women.
4 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

“As smart implants become more sophisticated,
they will enable more proactive and tailored
health care.”
Diego Bernardo
Principal
Smart implants will play an increasingly significant AI-powered N-of-one studies will expand, providing
role in patient-centered care. Smart implants are ad- the computational power and advanced analytics
vanced medical devices that integrate with the body’s needed to make personalized medicine feasible. AI
biological systems to monitor, diagnose, or treat various and machine learning are key enablers of N-of-one research.
conditions in real time. These implants are equipped with In N-of-one studies, a single patient’s unique data—such as
sensors, microprocessors, and wireless communication genetic information, lifestyle habits, and continuous health
technologies, enabling them to gather critical health data monitoring—is collected and analyzed in real time. AI and
and adjust their function based on patient needs. For machine learning algorithms can process this vast array of
example, smart cardiac implants can regulate heart individual data, identifying patterns, predicting health out-
rhythms or detect arrhythmias, while glucose-monitoring comes, and optimizing treatments specific to the patient.
implants continuously track blood sugar levels for diabet- These tools allow continuous learning from a patient’s
ics. Neuro-prosthetics and brain-computer interfaces evolving responses to interventions, enabling dynamic
(BCIs) are also part of this revolution, allowing patients to adjustments to therapies based on real-time feedback.
control prosthetic limbs with their minds or even restore This personalized, data-driven approach can lead to more
motor functions in cases of paralysis. These devices offer effective treatments and improved patient outcomes,
continuous, real-time monitoring and treatment, reducing making AI and machine learning critical to the future of
the need for frequent medical interventions and improving precision medicine.
the quality of life for patients with chronic conditions. As
smart implants become more sophisticated, they will
enable more proactive and tailored health care.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 5

Vocal biomarkers that detect early signs of disease
have the potential to speed interventions and im-
prove patient outcomes. Vocal biomarkers represent a
cutting-edge trend in digital health, where subtle changes in
voice patterns are analyzed to diagnose and monitor vari-
ous health conditions. By using artificial intelligence and
machine learning algorithms, vocal biomarkers can detect
early signs of diseases such as Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s,
respiratory infections, and even mental health disorders like
depression and anxiety. These tools analyze factors such as
tone, pitch, cadence, and even micro-tremors in the voice,
offering a non-invasive, scalable method for continuous
health monitoring. Vocal biomarkers hold particular prom-
ise in telemedicine, where remote assessment is critical.
As the technology advances, voice analysis could become a
routine tool in both preventive care and chronic disease
management, offering early intervention possibilities and
improving patient outcomes through real-time data collec-
tion. This approach also aligns with the growing trend of
passive health monitoring using everyday interactions.
As AI matures, it is rapidly
expanding possibilities for
patients, providers, and health
care organizations.
6 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

“Resilient manufacturing processes will look to AI as a
strategic enabler, helping pharma manufacturers meet
growing demand with improved accuracy.”
Satty
Chandrashekhar
Managing Director and Partner
Drug discovery and development continue to accelerate. Quality control comes of age in pharma manufacturing.
Forward-thinking pharma and biotech organizations will Generative AI (GenAI) has started to play a transformative
continue to reshape their R&D agendas, leveraging cus- role in ensuring higher standards of quality control in the
tomized language models to improve understanding of manufacturing of pharmaceutical and medical device prod-
disease biology and accelerating processes to identify ucts. Leveraging this capability to enhance the detection and
promising compounds. Models, both commercial and mitigation of deviations in manufacturing processes, AI will
open, already present the potential to analyze vast bio- help organizations address quality issues in more standard
medical data sets to suggest novel molecular structures or ways across manufacturing facilities, many of them global,
predict drug interactions. Combined with causal modeling by analyzing vast operational data streams from production
approaches, the ability to identify clues previously undis- environments. This approach to quality control will allow
covered or underrepresented in clinical data will continue manufacturers to adjust processes, reduce waste, improve
to evolve. And in 2025, this trend will further shorten dis- yield, and increase product quality. An issue-resolution
covery cycles and reveal more promising candidates to test GenAI solution trained with historical data, for example,
in clinical settings. Clinical development will also continue has the potential to help organizations assess the effects of
to accelerate. By using AI to improve data quality, better minor changes on product outcomes, enabling companies
understand data lineage, and enable evolved uses of oper- to reimagine processes without extensive and often manual
ational and patient data to find the right sites and more trial-and-error tests. Enhancing safety while staying compli-
precise populations for clinical studies, the industry will ant with regulations is critical to this effort—and at-scale
force a reckoning with operational data readiness. can accelerate the speed at which new treatments reach the
market. Resilient manufacturing processes will look to AI as
a strategic enabler, helping pharma manufacturers meet
growing demand with improved accuracy and lower produc-
tion costs.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 7

Pharma commercial enterprises will reimagine how
they make data-driven decisions. Many pharma compa-
nies continue to transform how they generate insights and
make strategic decisions. With the proliferation of real-world
data from sources like electronic health records, patient
registries, data related to social determinants of health, and
other non-traditional sources, companies are harnessing AI
to derive actionable insights at unprecedented speed and
scale. AI platforms will synthesize complex data sets into
clear insights that inform everything from market access
strategies to patient engagement and salesforce optimiza-
tion. Commercial teams will increasingly rely on predictive
models to forecast trends, identify emerging therapeutic
needs, and optimize pricing strategies in business-time.
These models will allow mature companies to pivot quickly
based on evolving global dynamics, competitor actions, and
regulatory shifts. This will lead to new operating models and
new ways of working to harness this data across the “extended
enterprise” with speed and precision—to move beyond
traditional silos and integrate information to drive more
cohesive decisions in the organization and anticipate and
respond to trends more effectively.
The growing influence of GenAI on
every aspect of health care—from
personalized care to automated
workflows—is a key theme.
8 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

“Consumer behavior patterns will likely force
established online health information gateways to offer
their own bespoke AI tools.”
Nick Cristea
Vice President,
Experience Design
Consumers will increasingly use AI chatbots for At-home diagnostic solutions will become a more
health questions, and a growing number of people ingrained part of how patients and providers interact.
will see them as trusted resources. A KFF poll from These tools should help simplify logistics for patients, espe-
August 2024 found that one in six adults say they use AI cially those in more rural settings. One example is TytoCare,
chatbots at least once a month to find health information a portable medical exam kit with an app that sends informa-
or advice, rising to 25% for adults under 30 years old. As tion to providers. The company’s recent announcement of a
the technology improves, these consumer behavior pat- new integration with Epic’s MyChart, in collaboration with
terns will likely force established online health information the University of Miami Health System, will leverage Tyto-
gateways to offer their own bespoke AI tools or risk losing Care for medical exams and enable asynchronous workflows
web traffic. Once providers move past their risk-averse for remote patient monitoring and primary care. With big
strategies, they will be able to start realizing significant hardware companies continuing to invest in consumer
operational efficiencies and competitive advantage by health care solutions, there will be an increasing expectation
leveraging their “clinical expert” brands to attract patients of preventive care benefits rather than simply vitals monitor-
to their AI services, while also reducing the burden on ing, and more formalized partnerships will emerge. As
humans who staff the 24/7 triaging capabilities that they clinical researchers discover new ways of detecting the early
offer. Deploying these tools first as co-pilots for their “nurse onset of disease through measurable biomarkers, patients
line” staff provides an early stepping stone for building and with a history of chronic conditions will be able to sign up
testing their capabilities and ensuring that they do not get with remote monitoring programs, which in turn will feed
bypassed in the future as patients seek greater access to more data back to the research teams. And, with the colla-
immediate answers and strategies to relieve their symp- tion of richer personalized health data, providers will gain a
toms. The providers who architect these solutions most deeper understanding of how best to automate solutions for
effectively will be able to realize a host of downstream patients or escalate to the right people at the right time,
opportunities in attracting patients, collecting data, and improving their operational efficiency while also decreasing
increasing effectiveness in triaging and routing patients to time to treatment.
the most appropriate sources of care.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 9

“By interpreting and synthesizing unstructured
clinical data into actionable insights, GenAI will
streamline workflows and improve efficiency.”
Andre Heeg
Managing Director and Partner
The combination of AI, genomics, and wearable tech GenAI will revolutionize health administration by
is paving the way for highly personalized treatments. automating the creation and updating of medical
Digital therapeutics will evolve to offer precision care based records, reducing physicians’ time spent doing
on general population data and individual genetics, lifestyle, paperwork. By interpreting and synthesizing unstructured
and real-time health data. For instance, we’ll see more apps clinical data into actionable insights, GenAI will streamline
and platforms tailored to individuals managing chronic workflows and improve efficiency. This will free up more
diseases that can predict flare-ups and suggest real-time time for health care providers to focus on patient care
interventions based on continuous health monitoring. while ensuring that health records are more accurate
and comprehensive.
AI-powered decision-making tools will become
mainstream, improving diagnostics, treatment plans,
and patient outcomes. In particular, GenAI will give physi-
cians near-instant access to research insights, treatment
guidelines, and real-world evidence, allowing for more in-
formed decisions. This will significantly reduce diagnostic
errors and speed up patient care delivery.
10 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

“Medicine 3.0 prioritizes healthspan driven by improved
prevention, personalization, and participation.”
Iana Kouris
Managing Director
The distinction between longevity and healthspan is The concept of Medicine 3.0 and shifting to proactive
becoming more and more important. According to The approaches in health care is gaining momentum.
Longevity Imperative, by Andrew Scott of the London Business While Medicine 2.0 focuses mainly on extending lifespan
School, “In the UK in 1965, the most common age of death and disease treatment, Medicine 3.0 expands this and
was in the first year of life. Today the most common age to prioritizes healthspan driven by improved prevention, per-
die is 87 years old.” This sounds like great news. However, a sonalization, and participation, as noted in Outlive by Peter
longer life doesn’t always mean a healthy life. While the Attia. This drives demand for regular heath checks, popular-
global life expectancy has continued to rise (from 66.8 years izes prevention approaches, and leads to the emergence of
in 2000 to 72.5 years in 2020) and the healthy life expectan- new businesses in these areas.
cy (HALE or healthspan) has also increased (from 58.1 in
2000 to 62.8 in 2020), the gap between life span and Generative AI in health care is driving better access,
healthspan has actually increased by 1 year during that time personalization, and quality. In particular, GenAI can
(from 8.7 to 9.7 years). Hence, on average, we spend one support health care in the area of Medicine 3.0. For instance,
more year with disability/in poor health than we used to, it can drive personalization through chatbots, virtual assis-
according to the World Health Organization. This results in tance, and more precise analysis of health-related data. New
additional medical costs, challenges for our insurance sys- GenAI models focused on medical applications will be devel-
tems, and increased years spent with suffering/discomfort. oped that can, for example, interpret data from medical
imaging, lab results, and electronic health records to produce
written or spoken recommendations.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 11

“If 2023 was about GenAI experimentation and 2024
was about point solutions, 2025 will be about value
delivery through end-to-end transformation.”
Julius Neiser
Managing Director and Partner
More than a third of ongoing GenAI programs will physician note taking or scheduling, we will witness inte-
fail to deliver value in 2025, and some health care grated systems that automate entire workflows, for exam-
players will draw the wrong conclusions from that. ple, from patient intake to treatment plans. These intelli-
Many GenAI solutions are delivering true impact by, for gent agents will coordinate across departments, learning
example, reducing medical/regulatory writing effort by 50% from each interaction to improve efficiency and outcomes.
and shaving valuable months off drug launch timelines. For example, in pharma, key processes that will be trans-
But more than a third of programs fail. The takeaway from formed with GenAI include clinical trials, regulatory sub-
these failures should not be to reduce funding, but rather missions, medical legal regulatory review, and omnichan-
to build on the lessons learned: obsess about business nel engagement.
outcomes, rigorously track key performance indicators, and
concentrate on the important people aspect of GenAI Unstructured health care data will become the new
transformations. The failure of some programs will ulti- structured health care data. Advances in AI-driven data
mately pave the way for more sustainable and impactful processing will allow systems to analyze and organize vast
transformations, driving a sharper focus on integrating amounts of medical records, clinical notes, and physician/
GenAI into existing health care workflows. patient interactions previously considered too disordered to
leverage. This shift will enable health care professionals,
We will see an evolution from health care GenAI pharma companies, payers, and providers to extract action-
point solutions to agentic end-to-end process able insights from a much larger data set, improving patient
transformations. If 2023 was about GenAI experimenta- care and outcomes. This transformation will enhance in-
tion and 2024 was about point solutions, 2025 will be teroperability across different systems, facilitating seamless
about value delivery through end-to-end transformation. collaboration between providers and empowering more
Instead of isolated AI tools focused on specific tasks like personalized and precise medical treatments for patients.
12 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

“GenAI chatbots will reshape the cost profile of contact
centers and drive significant efficiencies.”
Etugo Nwokah
Managing Director and Partner
GenAI chatbots will define a new table-stakes for Further innovation around clinical specialties will
payers and providers to deliver an omni-channel drive increased value-based payment arrangements
customer experience that patients and members will and end-to-end management for specific diseases.
expect. These capabilities will reshape the cost profile of Specialties such as oncology, orthopedics, and behavioral
contact centers and drive significant efficiencies. Health health will continue to see higher spending by payers,
plans will see a significant improvement in the adoption whose ability to influence and measure outcomes, well-
of self-service capabilities by their members that will drive defined populations, and episodes of care will be crucial to
major cost efficiencies, which will be reinvested to support leveraging new technology enablers such as large language
ambitious growth agendas and M&A. models (LLMs).
Organizational models that focus on digital products
and services will further evolve in hospital systems
and payer organizations of all sizes. As Chief Digital
Officer or Chief Product Officer roles become more preva-
lent in these organizations, principles around building
technology with measurable outcomes and customer-
centric experiences will overcome historical challenges of
IT functions becoming “digital feature factories” building a
lot of capabilities that no one uses.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 13

“Forward-thinking health care companies will focus on
driving AI adoption internally to accelerate scaling.”
Sid Thekkepat
Managing Director and Partner
Many health care AI use cases will be slow to scale Sleep monitoring is emerging as a mainstream bio-
and drive value, leading to increased pressure on IT marker that consumers are increasingly prioritizing
and change management teams. Winning health care in their health-tracking routines; providers and life
companies will experiment with new approaches to sciences will pay more attention. As awareness grows
drive adoption. By fostering a culture of experimentation, around the critical role sleep plays in overall well-being—
collaborating with frontline staff, and prioritizing impacting everything from mental health to chronic disease
user-friendly AI solutions, these organizations can enhance prevention—health tech companies are responding by
adoption rates and realize AI’s full potential. Health care focusing on developing more advanced, accurate
companies that thrive will be those that treat adoption as sleep-tracking tools. This trend is driving innovations in
a critical aspect of AI implementation, leveraging iterative wearables, apps, and even non-invasive monitoring devices
learning and adaptive frameworks to drive sustainable value. designed to provide deeper insights into sleep patterns,
quality, and its correlation with other health metrics. Expect
As valuations drop, consolidation and M&A activity sleep tracking to become a cornerstone of personalized
will intensify in the health tech space, leading to the health solutions as tech continues to refine its capabilities.
emergence of more scaled, sustainable platforms.
Larger strategic players will seize this opportunity to
strengthen their positions by acquiring or merging with
innovative but financially constrained startups. Private
equity and venture capital firms, facing market uncertainty,
may hold back for now, allowing established companies to
lead the charge with bold and creative deals.
14 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

“The focus on tech-enabled mental health will continue
to grow, notably by further integrating mental health
services into primary care.”
Gunnar Trommer
Managing Director and Partner
More providers/hospitals will develop their own Products and solutions that are enabled by machine
workflow efficiency solutions leveraging GenAI, learning—and soon, GenAI—will see accelerated
mainly aiming at reducing the administrative burden adoption in diagnosing diseases, analyzing medical
on clinicians and improving workflows. As long as imaging, and predicting patient outcomes. AI-powered
providers develop tech-enabled solutions for their own tools will help clinicians make faster and more accurate
patients and clinicians to enhance clinical and administra- decisions—especially in areas like oncology, radiology,
tive workflows, they do not have to seek regulatory approv- cardiology, and pathology—through a combination of
al for the tools. Because the latest GenAI technologies pattern recognition (using traditional AI/machine learning)
make developing these tools much easier, providers are and content generation (GenAI).
more inclined to create or tailor their own solutions. Exam-
ples include speech-to-text capture of patient/physician
conversations and automatically drafting discharge notes.
Post-pandemic mental health concerns and societal
pressures continue to drive more demand for scalable,
tech-enabled mental health services, including services
that address cognitive decline. As a result, the focus on
mental health will continue to grow, notably by further
integrating mental health services into primary care. Digital
mental health tools such as apps and AI-driven chatbots will
make it much easier to access therapy and support. There
will still be a “human in the loop” aided by technology to
counter clinician shortages and make mental health ser-
vices more accessible and more cost-scalable.
BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 15

“There is a huge opportunity to redesign traditional
‘hardware’ used for women’s health, with the female
experience at the center.”
Alice Wilson
Principal
Femtech partnerships and ecosystems start to mature. The femtech sector, particularly in the West, is
In 2024, we saw some promising partnerships between witnessing saturation in the B2C market. Intense
femtechs and health and wellness brands. The smart ring competition is making it difficult for many digital-first
developer OURA has really been a trailblazer, developing offerings to commercialize successfully. In response, the
partnerships with a range of femtechs such as Natural industry is shifting toward B2B models, partnering with
Cycles and Clue that combine biometric data with men- employers, health care providers, and insurers to embed
strual cycle tracking. In 2025, we predict that we will see women’s health solutions into broader systems. While this
more mature models of these partnerships emerge, based shift demands femtechs to robustly demonstrate the re-
on clear data exchanges. It is only by creating interopera- turn on investment to their new partners, those adopting
ble ecosystems that can pool critical data on women’s value-based care models with evidence of improved out-
health that we will be able to gather insights to drive im- comes and cost savings are best positioned to succeed in
proved health outcomes. this evolving landscape.
There will be a leap forward in femtech “hardware”
enabled by software. The speculum has remained the
same design for 150 years, and the pain associated with its
use is often cited as the number one reason that women
miss vital cervical cancer screenings. There is a huge op-
portunity to redesign traditional “hardware” used for wom-
en’s health, with the female experience at the center,
combining it with software to accelerate diagnoses. We’ve
seen glimmers of innovation: at-home cervical smear tests
and smart tampons are starting to appear. But we believe
there will be further breakthroughs in 2025.
16 HOW DIGITAL AND AI WILL RESHAPE HEALTH CARE IN 2025

APPENDIX B
GENERATIVE AI
Generative AI Will
Transform Health Care
Sooner Than You Think
By Matthew Huddle, Josh Kellar, Krishna Srikumar, Krishna Deepak, and Daniel Martines
ARTICLE JUNE 22, 2023 12 MIN READ
Generative AI has quickly become a major factor in a number of industries, including health care.
It has the potential to transform the sector, but executives must understand how to use the
technology in order to capitalize on its potential while avoiding the risks inherent in applying it to
patient care. We analyzed numerous use cases across health segments, looking at both solutions
already on the market and those likely to arrive soon. Our goal was to demystify generative AI and
help leadership teams make sense of the options.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 1

Generative AI algorithms can analyze large volumes of medical data and create entirely new
content. The technology can improve the quality of care, make it more accessible and affordable,
reduce inequities in research and care delivery, and help companies unlock value in new ways .
Moreover, generative AI overcomes some of the previous hurdles to AI adoption in health care. It
requires less data, is more adaptable to unfamiliar situations, and can interface better with clinical
staff. These features make generative AI more broadly applicable and transferable to different
health care tasks.
Emerging Use Cases in Key
Segments
Generative AI has potential use cases across the health care industry . (See the exhibit.) For each
segment—providers, pharmaceutical firms, payers, medtech, services and operations, and public-
health agencies—we grouped the options into three categories: validated solutions already on the
market, early-stage or conceptual use cases, and potential future use cases not yet in
development.
Providers
Several generative AI providers are developing solutions—from diagnosis to care provision to
patient monitoring—to help providers improve clinical outcomes. Others are working to improve
resource utilization by both clinical and administrative staff.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 2

Validated Products in Use Today. Paige.AI, a digital pathology company, is integrating
generative AI into its products to improve the accuracy and efficiency of prostate cancer detection.
It was the first company to receive FDA approval for AI use in digital pathology and is looking to
integrate the resulting information into patient electronic health records along with other clinical
data.
On the administrative front, Doximity, Abridge, and DeepScribe are exploring applications that
automate processes such as documentation, claims handling, preauthorization and appeals,
patient onboarding, and scheduling. DeepScribe, which offers AI scribing services, has been able to
decrease the amount of time providers spend on administrative tasks by three hours each day, and
Abridge’s ambient AI scribing products are now in use at more than 140 provider locations in the
University of Kansas Health System.
Early-Stage/Conceptual Use Cases. To aid caregivers, some providers are developing digital
solutions that patients interact with directly. For example, Babylon Health has created a digital
health service that uses generative AI to understand patients’ evolving risk profile, helping
providers offer more personalized care at lower cost. A generative AI-powered counseling chatbot
available on demand from Serena delivers accessible and affordable mental health care.
Potential Future Use Cases. In the future, generative AI could support real-time patient
monitoring, along with data analysis to generate personalized insights that encourage healthy
behaviors or lead to timely interventions before medical conditions worsen. Generative AI could
also make imaging solutions more accurate and transferable across different practice areas.
Finally, the technology’s adaptability and interactivity could encourage preventive care, wellness,
and healthy behaviors via personalized nudges on mobile apps, wearables, and monitoring
devices.
Pharmaceutical Firms
Generative AI is accelerating drug discovery, improving clinical-trial planning and execution, and
leading to more precision medicine therapies.
Validated Products in Use Today. Generative AI allowed Insilico Medicine to go from novel-
target discovery to preclinical candidate in just 18 months, spending only $2.6 million. The
company’s idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis drug recently received the agency’s Orphan Drug
Designation aer completing the preclinical phase in 30 months, much faster than average for a
new treatment.
Generative AI is accelerating drug discovery,
improving clinical-trial planning and execution, and
leading to more precision medicine therapies.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 3

The biotech company Exscientia is using generative AI to analyze patient tissue and employ
functional precision oncology to improve patient outcomes. NVIDIA is offering a set of generative
AI cloud services that enable customization of AI foundation models to accelerate drug discovery
and research in genomics, chemistry, biology, and molecular dynamics. The services provide
pretrained models and enable researchers to fine-tune generative AI applications on their own
proprietary data. The offering has been adopted by drug discovery startups such as Evozyne and
Insilico Medicine, as well as by incumbents such as Amgen.
Early-Stage/Conceptual Use Cases. Several biotech firms are at an earlier stage of generative AI
exploration:
Ordaōs is developing a class of miniproteins with enhanced biological and therapeutic
attributes to treat uniquely challenging rare cancers that primarily afflict ethnic minorities..
Absci is using deep-learning AI and synthetic biology to design new antibodies against cancers
and immune diseases.
Profluent created a machine-learning model able to generate new protein sequences with
specific functions, an innovative tool that can help improve access to affordable treatments.
Beyond drug discovery, generative AI could accelerate and improve clinical trials and precision
medicine therapies. For example, digital modeling of clinical trials—including synthetic control
groups—has recently been validated. Similarly, a tool developed by Synthesized can help
researchers expand existing drugs beyond their initial use to treat other diseases, which could
make medicines more accessible.
Potential Future Use Cases. Looking ahead, the use of generative AI at the preclinical and
clinical stage could accelerate access to therapeutics, even for rare conditions whose treatment
development has been difficult or economically prohibitive. The technology may be also used in
the analysis of patient data to identify subgroups likely to respond to specific treatments or to
personalize drugs to the unique needs of individual patients.
Payers
Payers are starting to leverage generative AI to reduce costs and improve risk management and
member engagement, with the overall goal of offering higher-quality coverage at less cost to
consumers.
Validated Products in Use Today. DigitalOwl is automating much of the underwriting and
claims management process, reducing operating expenses and turnaround times to boost
affordability.
Early-Stage/Conceptual Use Cases. Companies like ConcertAI are developing predictive models
to identify and proactively manage high-risk segments based on patient medical history and
demographic and social determinants of health.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 4

Payers are starting to leverage generative AI to
reduce costs and improve risk management and
member engagement.
Potential Future Use Cases. Generative AI could support applications like conversational AI to
deliver personalized messages based on member health needs and preferences.
Medtech
Generative AI could help companies create more personalized and patient-centered devices—
incorporating soware that allows for preventive maintenance and repairs, for example.
Early-Stage/Conceptual Use Cases. The UK ’s National Centre for Additive Manufacturing is
applying generative AI to optimize the design of medical devices such as prosthetics and implants,
tailoring them to the needs of individual patients. And medtech company Implicity is using the
technology to incorporate remote monitoring in pacemakers and implantable defibrillators.
In brain health, DiagnaMed recently announced the development of a platform leveraging
generative AI to analyze electroencephalography signals in order to predict and monitor brain
aging and provide insights and tools in the diagnosis, prevention, or mitigation of cognitive decline
in patients with mental health and neurodegenerative disorders.
Activ Surgical, a digital-surgery pioneer, recently announced completion of its first AI-enabled case,
which provides enhanced visualization and real-time, on-demand surgical insights inside the
operating room.
Potential Future Use Cases. Future applications could enable companies to collect and analyze
data via remote-monitoring systems, leading to more effective patient interventions. Quality
control applications could predict when devices and equipment may need repairs, allowing
caregivers to schedule maintenance and reduce downtime.
Services and Operations
In health care services, generative AI can be particularly useful in data analytics and soware
optimization. Because it is more flexible than earlier generations of AI and can accommodate
different data modes and formats—and even generate synthetic data to complement insufficient
data sets—generative AI can improve the interoperability of existing applications, including health
and laboratory information management systems.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 5

Early-Stage/Conceptual Use Cases. Syntegra and Google’s EHR-Safe are creating machine-
learning models that generate synthetic health care data sets, enabling fast and easy access to
flexible longitudinal data that (with adequate privacy protections) can help public-health programs
make more informed decisions.
In health care services, generative AI can be
particularly useful in data analytics and soware
optimization.
Potential Future Use Cases. Future applications could help health systems in areas such as
inventory tracking and restocking, cold-chain logistics, data sharing, and HR functions (including
recruitment and training). Additionally, generative AI could help personalize and automate
corporate functions, with potential use cases such as generative AI-enabled office applications,
auto-generated knowledge management, and human-machine interaction assistance.
Public-Health Agencies
Public-health agencies, other health organizations, and government ministries could leverage
generative AI to improve resource planning and allocation, anticipate public-health needs and
interventions, and execute programs more effectively.
Early-Stage/Conceptual Use Cases. BioNTech recently acquired InstaDeep in order to develop
an early-warning system for new COVID-19 variants. Structural modeling of the SARS-CoV-2 protein
combined with InstaDeep’s generative AI capabilities allows the system to proactively alert
researchers, vaccine developers, health authorities, and policymakers.
Potential Future Use Cases. Going forward, generative AI-powered tools could be used to
monitor public health and allocate resources. In the US, Medicaid could potentially leverage the
technology to better manage allocations based on health data and forecasted need. The FDA could
use it when reviewing the safety and efficacy of drugs, and generative AI could help public-health
groups like Doctors Without Borders predict outbreaks and mobilize resources to minimize
impact.
Managing Potential Risks
Although generative AI technology is promising, some near-term caution is warranted. There are
several inherent risks that providers must address before broad adoption in health care can occur.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 6

Biased Outputs. Generative AI results can reflect inherent biases in the underlying data. In
response, generative AI companies need to assign experts to review the data and results and
correct for bias through oversampling and other statistical techniques.
False Results. Because the models are still evolving, they can sometimes generate results
that are simply wrong (a phenomenon in AI known as hallucinating). Providers will need to
make their models more transparent and emphasize the need for human review of outputs.
Patient Privacy. Patient health data is sensitive and needs to be handled with extreme care.
Companies with generative AI solutions should clarify data ownership with partners,
strengthen cybersecurity, and look beyond existing data to the development of synthetic data.
Opaque Results. A challenge with generative AI is that it operates as a black box, making it
unsettling to some users. To build trust and increase adoption rates, health care organizations
will need to explain how a given algorithm works and how a specific set of data leads to a
prognosis.
Misuse or Overreliance. Patients may rely too heavily on information from generative AI.
Hospitals, clinicians, and payers should clarify how specific solutions should be used, with
clear messaging that AI-generated insights are recommendations rather than mandates.
How to Get Started
Even as the range of generative AI applications continues to expand, incumbent health
organizations can create the right foundation for adoption and implementation.
Create an enterprise-wide generative AI strategy. Explore new offerings and business
models with generative AI.
Build data systems. Invest in data management and analysis tools to leverage large and
mixed data sets.
Invest in capabilities. Recruit in-house experts to advise, implement, and monitor
generative AI opportunities and train key stakeholders in using the technology to make
informed decisions.
Forge strategic partnerships. Partner with tech players and consulting firms to bring in
timely and best-in-class external assets and expertise.
Integrate with the broader ecosystem. Establish data interoperability, offerings, and
systems foundational for generative AI. Ensure close coordination with regulatory agencies to
co-develop effective and safe solutions.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 7

APPENDIX C
DIGITAL GOVERNMENT
How Governments Can
Keep Digital
Transformations on
Time and on Budget
By Ashwin Bhave, Rick Berger, Rob Kurtz, Jon Kalscheuer, Matthew Leybold, and Crosby
Kapp
ARTICLE OCTOBER 16, 2024 8 MIN READ
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 1

US government agencies continually struggle to execute digital transformations. Programs
frequently run over budget and over schedule. Worse, aer spending billions of dollars on multi-
year programs, agencies (both civilian and defense) oen end up with limited gains at best, and no
meaningful change in capabilities. This approach is no longer sustainable. Instead, the government
must rethink its approach to digital transformations.
Some public sector organizations have taken steps to improve, such as creating a flexible
technology architecture, working in more agile ways, and being more transparent about program
status. However, those measures—while important—are becoming table stakes. Governments
also need to take a capability-led approach to transformation by focusing on the ultimate goals
they are seeking to achieve. Differentiators such as shiing the mindset from project management
to overall impact, rethinking contractor and vendor management to enforce accountability for
outcomes, and planning for the overall transformation life cycle from the start can all help
governments build capabilities more effectively in transformations.
Moreover, governments require a new role to enable those differentiators: an unbiased, third-party
navigator that can serve as a trusted advisor and liaise between the government and the prime
vendors and system integrators that it hires. In our experience, governments that use a navigator
to help implement the differentiators can flip the odds of a transformation dramatically in their
favor and capture the full potential value of a transformation. In that way, they can keep large-scale
change initiatives within budget and on schedule, emerge with stronger capabilities, and better
equip themselves to accomplish their mission.
The Growing Digitization
Imperative
The US government has a growing imperative to digitize and modernize. Core systems at many
agencies are becoming obsolete, and regulatory requirements are growing. At the same time, new
solutions can help organizations dramatically improve their performance through data-driven
insights, even as citizens’ expectations are growing for a more intuitive customer experience.
When executed well, digitization can lead to dramatic advances in government services in areas
such as improving health care patient outcomes and creating a more intuitive and customer-
friendly experience for taxpayers and constituents. Internally, digitization can improve capabilities,
streamline back-end processing functions, boost efficiency, and make data more accessible to the
government leaders and employees who protect and serve our nation.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 2

That said, digital transformations are large, complex programs that frequently fall short of their
objectives. Among both public and private sector initiatives:
only 35% of large transformations succeed within timeline and budget;
98% of large transformations face unforeseen implementation difficulties, leading to scope
creep and additional requirements; and
programs can take five to eight years before they begin generating financial value—a lifetime
given how fast digital technology advances.
Based on our experience supporting government transformations over the past ten+ years, BCG
has determined that there are several underlying issues that cause large-scale digital
transformations in government agencies to go off-track. These include a waterfall-based, tech-first
approach, insufficient governance, and an unclear strategy, among others. (See Exhibit 1.)
Table-Stakes Measures to Improve
Digital Transformation
Our experience also points to the following table-stakes measures government organizations can
implement to make digital transformations more successful. These measures are not new, but in
our experience, many government agencies still don’t put them into practice:
Build a flexible, extensible technology architecture. Emphasize flexibility, adaptation, and
scalability. A digital and data platform can standardize core transactional systems and data
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 3

platforms, and separate data from individual applications or systems.
Adopt agile ways of working. Focus on iterative development through sprint cycles and quick
value delivery, using DevSecOps and collaboration tooling to enable speed.
Make transformation progress more transparent. Both stakeholders in government agencies
and vendors must have access to a baseline of information—both processes and data—to
make informed decisions and ensure that vendors are accountable.
At many government organizations, these measures would lead to significant progress. But they’re
not enough to execute a digital transformation effectively, on time, and within budget.
Putting New Capabilities at the
Center of the Effort
In addition to table-stakes measures, government entities should ensure that a transformation
achieves its main objective: building new capabilities for an organization. Rather than a linear,
gated process, this oen means an iterative approach that addresses people, processes, tech, data,
and systems simultaneously to build capabilities incrementally over time. (See Exhibit 2.)
Three differentiators can help government organizations take a capability-led approach to
transformation. (See Exhibit 3.)
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 4

Shiing the organizational focus from project management to overall impact. Putting the
government in control of an overall program ensures that big-picture objectives and capabilities
remain the primary focus. Rather than transforming simply to reduce costs and increase efficiency,
agencies can focus on broader and more impactful goals, treating the transformation as an
opportunity to rethink what is possible for an organization.
This approach, grounded in clear, centrally agreed-upon metrics for the transformation that align
with strategic goals and desired outcomes, extends to governance as well. Metrics should be both
holistic enough to reflect overall performance and limited to a discrete number that can be
maintained in near real time. Collaboration across departments and vendors should be
encouraged for better decision-making.
Rethinking vendor engagement, including contracting. Traditional government contracts can
oen create the wrong incentives. Instead, agencies should shi to contracts that both reward
performance and outcomes and are tied to the achievement of specific program milestones.
Rather than relying entirely on a system integrator or prime contractor, government organizations
can create a best-of-breed, multi-vendor ecosystem. This approach allows an organization to
optimize skill sets by selecting niche vendors to support the system integrator or prime vendor in
implementing technology. To be clear, this approach requires the government to have stronger
capabilities in program and vendor management.
Vendor incentives should support the creation of a modular, open system architecture that is
flexible enough for subsequent add-ons. Equally important, the government should retain rights to
the code and data, along with control over the technology ecosystem, to avoid getting locked into a
specific vendor. Prioritizing data governance from the start supports the integration of solutions
upon delivery and into sustainment.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 5

Consider the entire transformation life cycle—with a particular emphasis on capabilities.
Rather than waiting for a complete solution to be in place, government customers should build
capabilities iteratively and in parallel with the development of a tech platform—an approach that
leads to continuous delivery of value. Similarly, governments should embed the end-user
experience into a transformation from the start, incorporating feedback from real-world users
during the design and testing phase.
Leading organizations plan for the full life cycle of a transformation, from development through
sustainment, to ensure long-term viability. They also shi from isolated assessments of individual
use cases to a holistic, portfolio-driven strategy that factors in the scalability of a platform and
underling capabilities. And top performers consider programmatic requirements—including
funding—that are needed to scale pilots and proofs of concept through to full implementation. For
example, flexible contracts and funding models support on-demand fielding of new capabilities,
updates, and enhancements to systems.
The Power of a Navigator
In many cases, we’ve seen the government leverage an objective third party—a navigator—to
enable the differentiators above and help implement a digital transformation. A navigator isn’t an
individual, but rather a team of product managers, IT architects, program-specific subject matter
experts, and user-experience designers. Collectively, this group serves as a trusted advisor to the
government and as a liaison with vendors, bringing the right stakeholders to the right
conversations at the right time to ensure better outcomes. (See Exhibit 4.)
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 6

This is a flexible approach that can benefit government transformations at all stages and
objectives. For new programs, a navigator can define a business case, shape the roadmap, and
support vendor negotiations to get the best deal. For programs already underway, a navigator can
get timelines back on track, support executional certainty, and make changes sustainable over
time. (See “Critical Questions for Government Leaders.”)
CRITICAL QUESTIONS FOR GOVERNMENT
LEADERS
Government leaders considering—or undergoing—a digital transformation should
assess their needs by asking themselves the following questions:
Where are we in our transformation journey? Is this a new system, or are we
upgrading an existing capability or platform?
If we’ve already started, are we on schedule and on budget?
Do we own the transformation agenda?
Is the program designed to meet the evolving capability needs of
stakeholders?
What is our current spend and ROI to date?
Where do we see inefficiencies, areas for improvement, and gaps in capability
or communication?
Are our vendors meeting performance expectations as laid out in service-
level agreements or contracts?
Could we benefit from expanding our vendor base?
Are we attuned to all potential risks from the transformation?
Once you have considered these questions, a third-party navigator can help you
implement the differentiators above to ensure that the transformation meets the
needs of your organization.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 7

Specific responsibilities of the navigator include the following:
Creating the business case, strategy, and roadmap
Identifying and championing the government’s highest-value priorities
Managing stakeholders and serving as a thought partner to leadership teams
Developing the technology platform and data governance
Determining technology architecture, developing requirements, deciding on key design
elements, and prioritizing use cases
Pressure-testing product vendor and system integrator recommendations against business
objectives and external best practices
Overseeing governance and execution
Enabling and accelerating the standup of governance bodies, transformation roadmaps, and
other deliverables
Creating transparency, ownership, and alignment across all stakeholders to deliver
government’s mission
Providing strategic guidance including industry, architecture design, and change management
expertise
Driving design and execution of solutions to advance broader transformation goals without
impacting any ongoing enterprise initiatives or strategic priorities
In our experience, combining the differentiators discussed above with a neutral, third-party
navigator can deliver a significant ROI on government digital transformations, including the
following:
40% faster path to value from new capabilities
35% reduction of project scope
70% increased degree of standardization
35% higher transformation success rate
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 8

30- to 60-fold return from investing 5% of program budget in de-risking
Governments face a growing imperative for digital transformation, but these programs are
expensive, complex, and time-consuming. Without the right approach, governments can spend
millions of dollars and end up with new technology that doesn’t meet their needs, alienates users,
and leaves an organization further behind than when it started.
Conversely, governments that take a proactive approach—applying the differentiators we
identified and relying on an objective, third-party navigator—can ensure that their digital
transformation stays on schedule and on budget and leads to strong capabilities. In that way, they
can better position themselves to meet the needs of their stakeholders.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 9

APPENDIX D
The Most Innovative Companies 2019
THE RISE OF AI,
PLATFORMS, AND
ECOSYSTEMS
MICHAEL RINGEL
FLORIAN GRASSL
RAMÓN BAEZA
DEREK KENNEDY
MICHAEL SPIRA
JUSTIN MANLY
March 2019 | Boston Consulting Group

CONTENTS
3 INNOVATION IN 2019
Digital Natives Lead, but Others Are in Fast Pursuit
Two New Forces
One Additional Thought
8 AI POWERS A NEW INNOVATION MACHINE
A Strong Correlation
Where to Focus?
AI at Scale
Build Versus Buy
“Alexa, Innovate!”
13 HOW PLATFORMS AND ECOSYSTEMS ARE
CHANGING INNOVATION
It’s an External Game
Some Rules of Ecosystem Engagement
18 NOTE TO THE READER
2 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

INNOVATION IN 2019
Users of Google’s email software extensively use AI and platforms. (See Exhibit
recently found that Gmail was offering to 1.) Alphabet/Google, which unseats Apple at
finish their sentences for them. This new number one after a 13-year reign, is an “AI
Smart Compose feature relies on Google’s first” company, according to its CEO. It has
expertise in artificial intelligence (AI) and long embraced both platforms (think Android)
machine learning (ML), along with billions of and ecosystems (consider how Alphabet has
training examples and the company’s cloud- worked with others to develop Waymo, its
based Tensor Processing technology, to intuit auton omous driving venture). Next in line is
what Gmail users want to say—often faster Amazon, which, besides using AI in its retail
than they can complete their own thoughts. business, has pioneered voice recognition
technology (Alexa) and platform-based ser-
In a world where computers can compose vices (Amazon Web Services). Apple, at num-
notes to your friends, it’s hardly surprising ber three, helped pioneer voice recognition
that the theme of BCG’s 13th annual global software (Siri) and provided a premier virtual
innovation survey and report is the rising im- workplace for app developers with its iOS
portance of AI and of platforms that support platform. Fourth-place Microsoft has also
innovation. This is not an out-of-the-blue de- evolved from a software company into a pro-
velopment. Our last few reports have high- vider of AI and platform-based services.
lighted the crucial role of science and tech-
nology in innovation, the impact of digital All of the ten highest-ranking companies—
technologies on both digital natives and more and many in the top 50—use AI, platforms,
traditional industries, and strong innovators’ and ecosystems to enable themselves and
increasing use of various internal and exter- others to pursue new products, services, and
nal vehicles to uncover new ideas. This year’s ways of working. For example, McDona ld’s
survey shows that AI use is rapidly expanding (number 21) uses an AI algorithm to serve
and that many companies are relying more digital menus that continuously change in re-
on platforms and their cousin, ecosystems, to sponse to such factors as time of day, day of
support their innovations efforts. the week, restaurant traffic, and weather.
Philips (number 29) launched an AI platform
in 2018 that helps “scientists, software devel-
Digital Natives Lead, but Others
opers, clinicians, and health care providers
Are in Fast Pursuit
access advanced analytic capabilities to cu-
The companies on BCG’s most innovative list rate and analyze health care data and offers
for 2019—especially those in the top ten— them tools and technologies to build, main-
Boston Consulting Group | 3

Exhibit 1 | 2019 Most Innovative Companies
1 Alphabet/Google 11 Boeing 21 McDonald’s 31 AXA 41 Dell
2 Amazon 12 BASF 22 Marriott 32 Unilever 42 Walmart
3 Apple 13 T-Mobile2 23 Alibaba 33 Salesforce 43 eBay
4 Microsoft 14 Johnson & Johnson 24 Bayer 34 Pfizer 44 HP Inc.
5 Samsung1 15 DowDuPont 25 AT&T 35 Stryker 45 ING
6 Netflix 16 Siemens 26 Allianz 36 NTT Docomo 46 BP
7 IBM 17 Cisco Systems 27 BMW 37 Toyota 47 Daimler4
8 Facebook 18 LG Electronics 28 SAP 38 Volkswagen3 48 Huawei
9 Tesla 19 Vale 29 Philips 39 3M 49 Rio Tinto
10 Adidas 20 JPMorgan Chase 30 Royal Dutch Shell 40 General Motors 50 Hilton
Source: 2018 BCG Global Innovation Survey.
1Includes only Samsung Electronics.
2Includes only US T-Mobile, not Deutsche Telekom.
3Includes Audi and Porsche.
4Includes Mercedes-Benz.
tain, deploy, and scale AI-based solutions.” Platforms and ecosystems serve multiple
BASF (number 12) is collaborating with AI functions, including facilitating (and some-
software developer Citrine to build models times profiting from) the innovation of oth-
that identify new materials for capturing car- ers, expanding reach and collaboration, and
bon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. enabling new multiparty solutions and offer-
ings. Again, strong innovators are more likely
than weak ones to expect a significant impact
Two New Forces
within three to five years and to be actively
Most companies are at least exploring the targeting these areas. (See Exhibit 3.) Strong
use of AI, and strong innovators are seeing innovators also show other signs of being
positive results. Nine out of ten respondents focused on external innovation. For exam ple,
in our current survey say that their compa- 75% report using incubators, 81% leverage
nies are investing in AI, and more than 30% aca demic partnerships, and 83% partner with
expect AI to have the greatest impact of any other companies. Weak innovators lag consis-
innovation area on their industry over the tently in all of these areas.
next three to five years. (See Exhibit 2.) Four
in ten self-described strong innovators report Platforms are technologies that provide a
receiving more than 15% of their sales from foundation for developing other business
AI-enabled products, compared with less offer ings. Numerous industrial goods compa-
than one in ten weak innovators. nies, including Siemens (number 16) and
Boeing (number 11), have built substantial
In the next chapter, “AI Powers a New Inno- platform businesses in predictive mainte-
vation Machine,” we take an in-depth look at nance to complement their traditional engi-
the widening gap in where and how AI is af- neering and manufacturing endeavors. Ama-
fecting innovation. zon, Microsoft, and IBM, among others, offer
4 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

Exhibit 2 | Digital Innovations Are Among the Most Promising and Most Targeted Areas
Which of the following areas of innovation/product development will be most impactful to
your industry over the next 3–5 years?
Percentage of respondents
50
4141 41
40
39 39
40 38
35
34 3434
33
32
31 31 31
30 3030
29
30 2828
2727
26
25
24 24
20 18
10
0
Technology Speed of Big data Operations Extension Extension New Supporting
platforms adopting analytics process of existing of existing service capabilities
tech product service
New Digital Mobile AI Customer Business Marketing
products design channel model
Which of the following areas of innovation/product development
are you actively targeting?
Percentage of respondents
50
40
3535 35
33
32
30 30 30 30
2929 29
30 28 28
27 27 27
26 26 26
25 25
24 24
23
22 2222
20
17
10
0
Technology Speed of Big data Operations Extension Extension New Supporting
platforms adopting analytics process of existing of existing service capabilities
new tech product service
New Digital Mobile AI Customer Business Marketing
products design channel model
2017 2018
Sources: 2017 and 2018 BCG Global Innovation Survey.
Note: Areas identified with red labels are digital innovation categories.
Boston Consulting Group | 5

Exhibit 3 | Strong Innovators Are Optimistic and Committed on Platforms and AI
Which of the following areas of innovation/product development will be most impactful to
your industry over the next 3–5 years?
Percentage of respondents
50
46
44
42 42 41
–13 40
40 38 37
–16 –12 36 35
34 34 34
33 33 33
–21 –16
30 30
30 28 28 –10
27
26 26
25
24 24
22
21
20
20
13
10
0
Technology Big data New Operations Customer New Extension Marketing
platforms analytics products process channel service of existing
service
Speed of Mobile Digital Supporting Extension AI Business
adopting design capabilities of existing model
tech product
Which of the following areas of innovation/product development
are you actively targeting?
Percentage of respondents
50
42
40 40
40 38 38 39
37
35 36
33 34 33
–15 32 31
30 –23 –17 29
–27 –13 27
23 24 –17 23 24 25
22
21
20
20 17 17 18
16
13
12
10
0
Technology Big data New Operations Customer New Extension Marketing
platforms analytics products process channel service of existing
service
Speed of Mobile Digital Supporting Extension AI Business
adopting design capabilities of existing model
tech product
Strong innovators Weak innovators
Source: 2018 BCG Global Innovation Survey.
Note: Areas identified with red labels are digital innovation categories.
6 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

One Additional Thought
a range of software and services from their
cloud platforms. A final observation—one that we have writ-
ten about before—bears repeating, especially
Ecosystems go a step further and leverage a with regard to the four companies in this
range of partners that pull together the un- year’s top ten list that were also in the top
derlying technologies, applications, software ten back in 2005. These companies are serial
platforms, and services needed to produce an reinventors. Google constantly revises its al-
integrated solution. (See “The Emerging Art gorithms and offerings. Amazon continuously
of Ecosystem Management,” BCG article, Jan- invents new categories, services, models, and
uary 2019.) The two main mobile operating ways of engaging its customers. Microsoft has
systems—Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS— successfully transitioned from its longtime re-
have grown into complex ecosystems of tel- liance on the Wintel partnership in PCs to be-
cos, device manufacturers, service providers, come a cloud-based tech company. And IBM
and application developers, among others. has reinvented itself multiple times, from
Rapidly changing technologies and growing mainframes to PCs to services to the cloud,
customer demand for a highly customized AI, and platforms and ecosystems.
user experience further amplify the need for
partnerships. The tools and technologies of innovation
evolve. The basic orientation toward change—
The opportunity to innovate entirely new rev- never being satisfied and always being will-
enue streams, business models, and sources of ing to reinvent oneself—remains part of
continuing advantage is particularly strong for some companies’ lifeblood.
B2B businesses, thanks to the masses of data
that devices connected to the Internet of
Things (IoT) generate. Data ecosystems will
play a critical role in defining the future of
competition in many B2B industries. (See
“How IoT Data Ecosystems Will Transform
B2B Competition,” BCG article, July 2018.)
The challenge is to set up and manage these
ecosystems effectively and use them strategi-
cally to maximize value and gain a competi-
tive edge. (For a look at how leading compa-
nies are building their own collaborative
networks or joining existing ones to drive
competitive advantage, see the third chapter,
“How Platforms and Ecosystems Are Chang-
ing Innovation.”)
Boston Consulting Group | 7

AI POWERS A NEW
INNOVATION MACHINE
Innovation, meet automation. This could years. And almost 30% are actively targeting
be the beginning of a beautiful friendship. AI in their innovation programs. Strong inno-
vators are particularly active.
In a few short years, artificial intelligence
(AI) and its subfield, machine learning (ML), The 2018 SMR-BCG report also identified a
have gone from futuristic vision to near- performance gap associated with this critical
mainstream capability at many large compa- new capability, indicating that AI “pioneers”
nies, including in their innovation programs. appear to be “pulling further away” from
A quick scan of BCG’s 50 most innovative their less aggressive peers. We see a similar
companies for 2019 shows that top innovators pattern with respect to AI in innovation,
are also AI leaders (Google, Amazon, Apple, which carries two key implications. First, AI is
Micro soft, Netflix, and IBM, for openers) and not a plug-and-play capability. Second, ML is
that many others—including plenty of com- inductive—that is, machines learn by doing,
panies from traditionally nondigital indus- and they need to be fed large amounts of
tries (Boeing, Siemens, Marriott, BP, and mul- data to get smarter. Tortoises will have a
tiple automakers, for example)—are actively tough time catching up with hares in this
leveraging AI. race. But hares can’t afford to become com-
placent, because AI is truly disruptive and
Like any powerful new technology, AI is the can propel long leaps forward.
subject of lots of hype. But in this case, real
fire lies behind the smoke. The rapid ascent What are the leaders doing?
of AI in business is well chronicled in two re-
ports by BCG and MIT Sloan Management Re-
A Strong Correlation
view (SMR).1 The more recent of these reports
found that AI leaders are deepening their Our most recent innovation survey found a
commitment to the technology (as evidenced strong correlation between companies that
by funding) and seeking ways to apply AI at consider themselves strong innovators and
scale. Our current research into AI in innova- those that see themselves as being good at
tion reveals similar trends. Nine out of every AI. (See Exhibit 4.) About 30% of respondents
ten respondents to our innovation survey re- rate themselves as strong innovators, and
ported that their companies are investing in about 25% as being better than average at
AI. More than 30% expect AI to be among the AI. Almost 20% see themselves as both; we
areas of innovation with the highest impact call this group “AI leaders.” Nearly 17% of the
on their business in the next three to five respondents in our survey assess their orga-
8 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

Exhibit 4 | Nearly 20% of Companies Rate Themselves as Both Strong Innovators and Above Average at AI
Percentage of respondents identifying their company as:
AI leaders
Better than average
at AI (%) 0.2 6.0 19.2
25.4
Average at AI (%)
1.9 46.6 9.6
58.1
AI laggards
Worse than average
at AI (%) 7.1 8.7 0.7
16.5
Weak innovator (%) Average innovator (%) Strong innovator (%)
9.2 61.3 29.5
Source: 2018 BCG Global Innovation Survey.
nizations as being below average on AI; we Where to Focus?
call this group “AI laggards.” AI leaders are All companies face choices about where to
more likely than laggards to consider AI im- apply resources and where AI might make the
portant to their organizations’ future growth most impact. New examples emerge every
(94% versus 56%), which suggests that more day. BP (number 46 on the 2019 most innova-
than half of laggards will face a widening tive list) is using ML to improve its prediction
competitive disadvantage unless they step up models for oil and gas reservoir recovery.
their AI game. General Motors (number 40) used AI-aided
design to reduce the weight of traditionally
AI leaders tend to see themselves as being designed and manufactured parts by 40%
good at embracing new technologies such as while in creasing their strength by 20%. Ex-
AI to enhance customer offerings or stream- perts predict multiple areas of impact for AI
line the development process (89% versus in health care, including improving radiology
24%). AI leaders and laggards allocate their diagnoses, making medtech devices smart,
spending roughly equally among radical inno- and identifying new infection patterns. In fi-
vation; major new products, services, and in- nancial services, Chinese insurer Ping An, a
ternal process changes; and improvement of digital native, developed predictive models
existing products, services, and processes. and leveraged face and voice recognition as
foundations of its business. The vice president
But AI leaders are far more likely than lag- and chief data scientist at Ant Financial, an-
gards to apply big data and advanced analyt- other Chinese digital financial services leader,
ics throughout the innovation process—from told SMR, “AI is being used in almost every
identifying new themes (91% for leaders, 30% corner of Ant’s business. We use it to optimize
for laggards) to informing investment deci- the business and to generate new products.”
sions (92% to 27%). (See Exhibit 5.) In addi-
tion, by margins of 42% to 19%, and 42% to Early AI programs tend to focus on improving
24%, respectively, AI leaders are more likely operational efficiencies, perhaps because
than laggards to be actively pursuing the re- companies can demonstrate success relatively
lated avenues of big data and tech platforms. quickly in these areas. The 2018 SMR-BCG re-
Boston Consulting Group | 9

Exhibit 5 | AI Leaders Use Data Throughout the Innovation Process
How would you rate your company’s skill at leveraging big data and advanced analytics to help
with each of the following aspects of innovation?
Percentage of respondents selecting “Strong” or “Very Strong”
100 –62 –60 –65 –63 –61 –53
80
60
94 92 92 92 91 89
40
20 32 32 27 29 30 36
0
Providing Identifying players Informing Revealing Identifying Making portfolio
input to with external innovation market trends new themes prioritization
ideation innovation potential investment decisions
decisions
AI leaders AI laggards
Source: 2018 BCG Global Innovation Survey.
port found that many early AI initiatives were Despite ample evidence of impact, AI still
pilots or tests designed to solve a particular garners its share of skepticism, which is one
problem as companies focused their early at- reason that laggards are falling behind. Re-
tention on gathering low-hanging fruit and search by BCG and Google in the consumer
making moves with near-term impact. Nearly products sector found that by applying AI
two-thirds of the AI leaders in our study re- and advanced analytics at scale, consumer
port that their innovation-related use of AI packaged goods (CPG) companies can gener-
aims to improve internal processes. ate more than 10% of their revenue growth
through multiple means, including more pre-
As significant as the impact of AI will be on dictive demand forecasting, more relevant lo-
business processes, however, its area of cal assortments, personalized consumer ser-
greatest potential lies in developing new vices and experiences, optimized marketing
products and services that can evolve into and promotion ROI, and faster innovation cy-
major revenue streams over time. Most of the cles. (See “Unlocking Growth in CPG with AI
AI pioneers in the SMR-BCG study prioritized and Advanced Analytics,” BCG article, Octo-
revenue-enhancing applications, which is ber 2018.) Yet in our innovation survey, only
where 72% of respondents expect the big AI 23% of CPG respondents said that they be-
gains to originate. In our survey, the AI lieve AI will have the greatest impact on in-
leaders reported much higher percentages of novation and product development in the in-
sales driven by AI-enhanced products or dustry over the next three to five years, and a
services introduced in the past three years: similarly modest percentage are actively tar-
46% of AI leaders say that 16% or more of geting AI in their innovation programs. Both
sales are AI-generated, compared with only figures are about 10 percentage points below
10% of AI laggards). AI leaders also expect a the cross-industry averages.
much greater percentage of sales to come
from the introduction of AI-enhanced
AI at Scale
products or services over the next five years
(54% of AI leaders anticipate that 16% or AI forces business executives to deal simul-
more of sales will come from these sources, taneously with technology infrastructure and
compared with 22% of AI laggards). more traditional business issues. Typical IT
10 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

systems—which consist of data input, a tool, But because of AI’s heavy reliance on data,
and data output—are relatively easy to mod- companies need to be careful about the
ularize, encapsulate, and scale. But AI systems agreements they construct with their suppli-
are not so simple. AI algorithms learn by in- ers and partners. They must protect their
gesting data, and training data is an integral ownership of internal data, control how ven-
part of both the AI tool and the overall sys- dors use that data, and ensure their own con-
tem. The entanglement is manageable during tinuing access to data from outside sources.
pilots and isolated uses but becomes exponen- (See “The Build-or-Buy Dilemma in AI,” BCG
tially more difficult to address as AI systems article, January 2018.)
interact and build on one another. This leads
to what our colleagues have termed the “AI
paradox”—the ease of achieving powerful re- Companies need people who
sults with AI pilots and the difficulty of repli-
combine business skills with
cating those results at scale. (See The Big Leap
Toward AI at Scale, BCG Focus, June 2018.) an understanding of AI.
Talent is a major issue for most organiza-
tions. Data scientists and software engineers
aren’t the only high-demand personnel. Com- AI leaders often rely on ecosystems. Digital
panies also need people who combine busi- natives, such as those leading our list of most
ness skills with an understanding of AI. Com- innovative companies, grew up in ecosystems.
panies that are moving toward AI-centric Companies such as Amazon, IBM, and Micro-
innovation processes must consider how the soft offer AI capabilities for sale or rent
transformation will affect their staffing in through their cloud-based platforms. Some
terms of skill shortages, job elimination, or industrial companies—automakers and air-
both. In pharma, for example, as AI algo- craft manufacturers, for example—are accus-
rithms learn to identify the types of people tomed to working in broad partnerships of
and conditions that are best suited for clinical multiple companies, with all the collaboration
trials—a major process innovation—the need and technology and data sharing that these
for human involvement in this critical func- arrangements entail. Others have less experi-
tion changes. Banks and other financial ser- ence—but as we explore in the next chapter,
vices companies are already feeling the im- “How Platforms and Ecosystems Are Chang-
pact of voice recognition and credit-scoring ing Innovation,” the fast-rising importance of
systems that use AI technology to automate technologies such as AI will all but force them
customer service. to explore such alliances.
As AI becomes a more critical element of in-
“Alexa, Innovate!”
novation, the talent challenge may widen the
gap between strong and weak innovators. Af- A fascinating battle for AI-enabled smart-
ter all, Exhibit 4 indicates that more than 65% home systems is brewing among Amazon
of strong innovators already see themselves (Alex a), Google (Google Assistant), Apple
as above average on AI, versus just 2% of (Siri), Microsoft (Cortana), and others as each
weak innovators. company seeks to capture the biggest share of
end-user households for its voice-recognition
technology. The battle is a critical early-stage
Build Versus Buy
skirmish in a much longer conflict to deter-
One talent-related issue with immediate im- mine how and for what purposes these sys-
pact is the question of whether to build or tems will be used. At this point, streaming
buy AI capabilities. In our survey, 55% of AI music is the most widely used application,
leaders extensively use external vendors for but the larger competition may take a genera-
AI projects—36% relying exclusively on them, tion to decide. The plan appears to be for
and 19% relying mostly on them. This ap- each company to open its smart-home plat-
proach may help leaders climb the AI curve form to others, which will innovate actual use
quickly, since expertise is still in short supply. cases for consumer testing. Winners can be
Boston Consulting Group | 11

scaled up quickly and losers tossed aside with It’s still the early days in AI. But after years
equal dispatch. of development, actual use of the technolo-
gy is catching on fast. Laggards need to get
Consider Alexa and Google Assistant. These into the game, and leaders need to accelerate
classic platforms enable others to innovate in- their efforts. The platforms offered by Ama-
expensively on top of them. By opening their zon, Google, Baidu, and others may well
platforms to others, Amazon and Google can make some kinds of experimentation and
harness others’ innovations—much as Apple testing and learning easier. But the big issues
and Google did with their mobile platforms, of access to data and talent won’t get any less
and as Microsoft did with Windows. The plat- challenging over time; if anything, competi-
forms, provided at little or no cost to app de- tion for these vital assets will only increase.
velopers, take care of the basic plumbing, and Companies that hope to rank among the
the platform owners derive value from having most innovative of the future need to place
a richer set of services available than they their AI bets now.
would have had with their own apps alone. In
this case, the stakes are high, as use of smart-
home systems is expected to increase expo-
nentially as today’s young people grow up
talking to, learning from, and coming to de- Note
pend on these devices. 1. See S. Ransbotham, P. Gerbert, M. Reeves, D. Kiron,
and M. Spira, Artificial Intelligence in Business Gets Real,
MIT Sloan Management Review and Boston Consulting
In China, Baidu uses a similar open-AI plat- Group report, September 2018; and S. Ransbotham, P.
form strategy in the B2B or industrial inter- Gerbert, M. Reeves, and D. Kiron, Reshaping Business
with Artificial Intelligence, MIT Sloan Management Review
net marketplace. Baidu provides access to AI
and Boston Consulting Group report, September 2017.
services such as voice and image technology
and natural-language processing, which com-
panies are using in such diverse fields as agri-
culture, manufacturing, and health care, where
these innovations have helped reduce the mis-
diagnosis rate for diabetes-related eye disease
to less than 5%. (See “Get Ready for the Chi-
nese Internet’s Next Chapter,” BCG article,
January 2019.) Open platforms such as these
will affect not only how consumers and busi-
nesses access AI applications but also how
companies build their own AI capabilities.
12 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

HOW PLATFORMS
AND ECOSYSTEMS ARE
CHANGING INNOVATION
In 2016, a group of Finnish medical an early look at what’s happening in their tar-
researchers won a global competition geted fields of R&D. (See How the Best Corpo-
whose goal was to accurately predict prostate rate Venturers Keep Getting Better, BCG Focus,
cancer survival rates. From an innovation August 2018.) It’s a powerful combination—if
perspective, two facts stand out. First, the companies create the organization, processes,
competition was virtual: it was hosted and and incentives needed to bring outside ideas
managed on a cloud-based platform that inside without killing them along the way.
facilitates scientific collaboration. Second,
before entering the contest, the Finnish team
It’s an External Game
had not been active in cancer research.
In business life today, companies need to look
beyond their own walls for new ideas. We
More and more frequently, have seen big increases in the use of such
partnership models as corporate venture cap-
innovation today comes from
ital, incubators, and accelerators. Our current
outside the company. innovation survey found that incubator use
among self-described strong innovators rose
from 59% in 2015 to 75% in 2018, that tapping
into academic relationships jumped from 60%
As we noted in our 2016 report on the most to 81% during the same period, and that for-
innovative companies, innovation today can mation of company partnerships increased
come from anywhere—and more and more from 65% to 83%. (See Exhibit 6.)
frequently, it comes from outside the compa-
ny. (See The Most Innovative Companies 2016: The increasing use of platforms such as Syn-
Getting Past “Not Invented Here,” BCG report, apse, which hosted the prostate cancer chal-
January 2017.) Technology has helped level lenge, is making innovation more multiparty
the competitive playing field, making it easier and collaborative. There are many types of
for anyone anywhere to gain access to the platforms—such as computing, technology,
hardware, software, and tools they need to service, content, and marketplace—but all of
develop new ideas and business models and them serve a similar purpose. Users access
connect with other people and organizations. platforms because platforms combine aggre-
gated supply or demand with high service
At the same time, companies can use an array levels and reduced friction. They can also fa-
of tools to cast wide innovation nets and get cilitate collaboration and the development of
Boston Consulting Group | 13

Exhibit 6 | Strong Innovators Are Increasingly Embracing Ideas from External Sources
Incubators Academic partnerships Company partnerships
Percentage of strong innovators Percentage of strong innovators Percentage of strong innovators
100 100 100
81 83
75
65
59 60
50 50 50
0 0 0
2015 2018 2015 2018 2015 2018
Sources: 2015 and 2018 BCG Global Innovation Survey.
new ideas. For example, many of the longest- Just as multiple types of platforms exist, eco-
tenured companies on our most innovative systems may be formed to serve different
companies list use platforms to gain access to purposes. Here are some of the most com-
different capabilities and sources of data, mon ones that are relevant to innovation.
which they then use to build new business
models or develop new products and services. Building Capabilities. Many ecosystems are
set up to bring in expertise from other
Developers of voice-recognition- based smart industries. BCG research shows that 83% of
home platforms, including Amazon and Goo- digital ecosystems involve partners from four
gle, make it easy for others to create new or more industries and 53% involve partners
consum er services that use their AI-enabled from six or more industries. For instance, a
platforms—and in the process to attract the household electronics manufacturer might
critical mass of applications needed to make partner with sensor and camera manufactur-
their platform a clear leader. ers, an AI software provider, and research
facilities to bring an advanced vacuum robot
Digital technologies enable collaboration plat- to market. In the past, to enter a new market
forms, and collaboration platforms enable eco- (such as China), automakers either formed a
systems that bring together a group of organi- joint venture or alliance with an OEM or
zations to build a new capability or product or established contractual relationships with
service offering, or to help a new field of sci- hundreds of suppliers to secure parts. These
ence or technology advance. Some ecosystems traditional partnerships still exist, but today a
represent expansions of traditional ways of typical auto company draws on an ecosystem
organizing and doing business; they tend to of more than 30 partners across five different
have an orchestrator at the center, with which industries and several countries to make their
all the other participants interact, along with cars connected, electric, and autonomous. The
established hierarchies and structures. auto company acts as orchestrator, organizing
and managing the ecosystem, defining the
Other ecosystems—including many that are strategy, and identifying potential participants.
involved in the early research phase of
R&D—tend to be more dynamic, less reliant For example, Caterpillar’s smart-mining eco-
on a central orchestrator, and more depen- system involves four types of collaboration,
dent on multifaceted interactions among par- with a strong focus on flexible deal structures
ticipants. Various types of glue bind ecosys- such as partnerships and minority invest-
tem participants. Money is one type of glue, ments, along with joint ventures and M&A.
of course, but knowledge, data, skills, and Caterpillar has forged partnerships to improve
community can be equally important. its proprietary industrial IoT platform’s tech-
14 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

nology, and it has made minority investments of competition, particularly in many B2B
to expand the platform’s automation, optimi- industries, because they enable companies to
zation, and analytics capabilities. For most build data businesses. Such businesses are
companies, these types of flexible deals re- valuable not only because they generate
quire a different approval process than pre- recurring high-margin revenue streams, but
vails in traditional contracting and M&A—one also because they create competitive advan-
that is faster, leaner, and closer to the busi- tage. New data-driven products and services
ness. (See “The Emerging Art of Ecosystem deliver unique value propositions that extend
Management,” BCG article, January 2019.) beyond a company’s traditional hardware
products, deepening customer relationships
Developing New Products and Services. and raising barriers to entry by others. They
Eco systems can offer multiple players a also build highly defensible positions rooted
powerful way to build new revenue streams in economies of scale and scope, similar to
from products and services that they could positions based on proprietary intellectual
not develop and bring to market on their own. property (IP) or trade secrets. (See “How IoT
For example, Alibaba’s ecosystem pro vides a Data Ecosystems Will Transform B2B Compe-
range of services for Alibaba platform users: tition,” BCG article, July 2018.)
travel, entertainment, gaming, finance,
transportation, and e-commerce. It’s an
eclectic mix, and it generates a wide-ranging Ecosystems enable players
array of data that Alibaba collects and
to develop new products and
analyzes centrally. By capturing data from
multiple sources, Alibaba can tailor individu- services collaboratively.
alized offers to users—timing them for
maximum effectiveness—and provide tools
that help its online sellers enhance their own
businesses. The results, in turn, provide more Gaining Access to IP. Shifts in the IP market-
data for the ecosystem. place are creating new opportunities for
companies that are long on IP to cooperate
In recent years, Alibaba has expanded on this with traditional companies that may be short
model to build Ant Financial Services (origi- on it. Many tech companies, for example,
nally Alipay) into a major force in financial have a surplus of IP, while industrial goods
technology; today, it is the world’s most valu- companies may face a deficit. In the IoT
able fintech company, with more than 520 world, they can work together to expand the
million users. Using machine learning tech- market for sensor-enabled and location-aware
nology and data from the Alibaba ecosystem, goods and services. Classic, exclusionary IP
Ant provides an array of financial services to strategy is not dead, but companies need to
an underbanked market. Alibaba’s data and master a more sophisticated and nuanced
analytics capabilities enable Ant to assign playbook for creating competitive advantage
credit scores to individuals and small busi- through IP. (See “The New IP Strategy: Make
nesses, and the company has ventured from Love Not War,” BCG article, June 2018.)
payments into online wealth management
and consumer and small-business lending. In Merging Physical and Digital Channels. B2B
2017, Ant launched two new initiatives: a pay- and B2C companies are finding new ways to
ment option that uses facial recognition tech- combine the digital world and the physical
nology; and Ant Forest, which uses digital one to provide new services, more seamless
gaming technology to enable users to track customer experiences, and—in some cases—
their carbon footprint. The service has al- new business models. Amazon (with its
ready attracted some 200 million users. (See acquisition of Whole Foods), Siemens (IoT),
“Digital Innovation on the World Stage,” BCG and the auto industry (connected cars and
article, May 2018.) autonomous vehicles) offer examples. Emerg-
ing opportunities at the intersection of the
Collecting and Using Data. Data ecosystems digital and the physical give incumbents the
will play a critical role in defining the future chance to innovate and build valuable eco-
Boston Consulting Group | 15

systems by defining new niches and new rules. R&D in the past. (See The Dawn of the Deep
(See “Getting Physical: The Rise of Hybrid Tech Ecosystem, BCG report, March 2019.)
Ecosystems,” BCG article, September 2017.)
Some Rules of Ecosystem
Advancing New Technologies. Companies
Engagement
that have a stake in basic scientific advances
or in the development of new technologies An ecosystem often operates differently from
such as quantum computing or synthetic other types of business partnership, and in
biology may want to explore emerging deep- ways that can be foreign to big companies.
tech ecosystems—groups of entrepreneurs, Because ecosystems are dynamic environ-
startups, investors, corporate and academic ments that tend to contain lots of varied enti-
partners, and others that join forces to ties, they have multiple sources of influence,
research and develop a particular technology. and no one party absolutely controls their
Such technologies differ from others in their direc tion. They trade in multiple currencies,
expected impact, in the time they take to not all of which are financial. Because they
reach market-ready maturity, and in the exist to create value through collaboration,
significant amount of capital (and investor they are the opposite of zero-sum congrega-
patience) required to bring innovations to tions; when the ecosystem wins, each of the
market. The ecosystems represent a new participants wins as well. And they evolve,
model that is far more fluid and dynamic acquir ing new members and missions over
than the methods used to conduct technology time. (See the sidebar.)
NTT DOCOMO’S EVOLVING MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
Today it sounds like something from a players (often industry leaders). Establish-
distant era. In 1999—eight years before ing mobile payment capabilities for rail
the launch of the iPhone—NTT Docomo service helped seal other deals in the
(number 36 on the list of 2019’s most finance, retail, and hospitality sectors,
innovative companies) built the first mobile among others, and helped attract more
internet ecosystem in Japan. than 500,000 merchants to Docomo’s
mobile payment service.
The leading telco developed a vertically
integrated ecosystem based on partner- Since the advent of smartphones, Doco-
ships and acquisitions that provided mo’s ecosystem has undergone major
valuable services and experiences to evolutionary changes a couple of times.
feature phone users. Part of its plan was to The first major change involved creating a
drive “innovation through the convergence mobile content hub through alliances with
of mobile with other industries and publishers, media companies, and other
services, thereby creating new values and content producers. Docomo now offers
markets.” (See Through the Mobile Looking more than 400 magazines online, as well
Glass, BCG Focus, April 2013.) Consumers as Japan’s largest anime library. Its dTV
flocked to new services such as mobile service has a similar number of subscribers
email, contactless payments, and, in time, to Netflix in Japan. As the content business
streaming live video—all part of Docomo’s has become more competitive in recent
“i-mode” ecosystem, which helped propel years, Docomo has moved to the latest
mobile phones to become Japan’s most iteration of its ecosystem, which relies on
widely owned device and spurred tradition- its strengths in payments, user identifica-
al industries to go mobile. Docomo pio- tion, customer loyalty, and other areas to
neered the technological innovation of offer promotional support and services to
mobile payments, leveraged local market an expanding network of third-party
dynamics, and achieved critical mass e-commerce partners.
through partnerships with established
16 | The Most Innovative Companies 2019

Companies that are considering orchestrating • Determine the kinds of relationships that
a new ecosystem or joining an existing one will provide the foundation of the eco-
should take a number of steps in advance to system, and decide on the nature of your
prepare themselves: involvement. For example, do you foresee
a series of passive corporate venture-
• Make sure that you have a sharp, clear capital investments or active investments
innovation strategy that identifies the and collaborations? Is access to data more
innovation domains on which you will be important than financial return?
concentrating.
• Align and manage your innovation
• On the basis of your innovation strategy, vehicles (including their geographic
clearly articulate an ecosystem strategy: locations, search patterns, guidance, and
what value you want get out of an eco- budgets), according to your answers to the
system, and what you need to achieve in preceding questions.
the ecosystem to support your broader
innovation goals. • Set clear goals, review achievements
regularly, and don’t be afraid to adjust
• Identify the types of players with which your ecosystem strategy on the basis of
you will interact. These may extend real-world results.
beyond the obvious choices to companies
in other (unrelated) industries, universi-
ties and research institutions, startups, The use of platforms and ecosystems will
and venture investors, among others. undoubtedly expand as more companies
experiment with both types of vehicles and
• Think about how you will enlarge the develop more successful use cases. The re-
ecosystem pie other than by simply lentless advance of technology will also play
maximizing value for your company a role. The more complex the technology, the
alone. Consider how the ecosystem as a narrower the expertise—and the more likely
whole will create value and how the it will be that companies must look outside
participants will share that value. their own organizations for the skills needed
to use the latest developments. But gaining
• Note the locations of current innovation access to the latest science is one thing. Bring-
hot spots around the world for the domains ing that science inside and integrating it with
you are targeting. The US and China are existing programs and processes is another.
primary hubs for many fields of new- The latter remains the area where most com-
technology R&D, but many other countries panies will face their biggest challenges.
are active in particular fields and are
developing serious centers of excellence.
(See “A Deep Dive into Deep Tech
Investing,” BCG infographic, forthcoming.)
Boston Consulting Group | 17

APPENDIX E
INSURANCE INDUSTRY
Redefining Global
Health Insurance
Through Value-Based
Care
By Matthias Becker, Nicolas Busch, and Kerstin Helmlinger
ARTICLE DECEMBER 04, 2024 8 MIN READ
It’s a challenging time for health insurance companies around the world. Private health insurers—
whether they have operations in one or multiple countries—face increasing pressure as global
healthcare costs continue to rise and profit margins shrink. While patients demand superior
services, they are dissatisfied with rising premiums. At the same time, despite significant insurer
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 1

investments in new products and services, improvements in patient outcomes aren’t keeping pace
with healthcare cost increases. This dilemma has given rise to numerous discussions between BCG
and leading health insurance executives about how to strategically address these pressures.
There are many reasons for rising costs, some of them beyond insurers’ control. An aging
population uses more medical services, while newer and more costly treatments, many of them
pricey new drugs, continue to emerge. Many medical advances have revolutionized treatments in
recent years, yet they are not always more effective. Overall, a quarter of the treatments patients
receive are considered unnecessary, adding needless cost while doing little or nothing to improve
health outcomes.
To rein in spending and improve outcomes, we believe that insurers should look to a strategy that,
while not new, has yet to reach its full potential: value-based healthcare . Rather than focusing on
the quantity of services provided, this approach emphasizes clinical value and best outcomes. It
aligns patient, provider, and insurer financial incentives to encourage the use of high-value care
and discourage care that is low value.
Our approach to value-based care consists of five levers aimed at both insurance policyholders and
providers that together can help health insurers begin to implement these practices. The goal, no
matter an insurer’s size or market share, is to control rising costs, improve healthcare outcomes,
and increase customer satisfaction simultaneously. In this way, insurers can redefine the role of
health insurance in promoting good health and truly go from payer to player by focusing on what
can be achieved through value-based care rather than chasing reimbursement on a per-service
basis.
Market Growth Has Failed to Drive
Better Outcomes
In recent years, the global health insurance market has grown substantially. In 2024, it is projected
to reach $2.42 trillion in gross written premiums. Overall, the gross written premium compound
annual growth rate from 2024 to 2029 is projected by Statista to be 3.18%, resulting in a market
volume of $2.83 trillion by 2029.
Historically, the market has experienced premium growth rates of roughly 5% annually. Going
forward, we expect that there may be even more marked increases in global gross written
premiums, reaching a maximum estimated 10% annual growth. This would bring the global
market size to more than $4 trillion by 2029. (See Exhibit 1.)
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 2

Profit margins have remained relatively constant over time. But pressures on health insurance
companies are mounting. For example, private sector insurance premiums in many countries are
at an all-time high in 2024 due to insurers covering higher healthcare costs in recent years.
At the same time, despite substantial annual premium increases, patient outcomes have not
improved commensurately, and life expectancy worldwide has barely budged in several years. The
gap between rising healthcare costs and stagnant life expectancy can be attributed to several
factors, including lack of access to care, costs associated with managing chronic conditions, and a
focus on treatment rather than prevention, as well as the aging population. These complexities
mean that simply spending more on healthcare does not guarantee better outcomes or longer life
expectancy.
Looking at the correlation between life expectancy and general health expenditures, we observe
that many leading European countries and the US seem to be approaching quality saturation,
where higher spending leads to diminishing improvements in health. Some countries such as
Singapore, however, continue to show improving life expectancies despite comparatively lower
health expenditures. (See Exhibit 2.)
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 3

Value-Based Care Can Help
Insurers Cut Costs While
Improving Patient Outcomes
The concept of value-based healthcare was introduced more than 15 years ago by US business
strategy and innovation experts Michael Porter and Elizabeth Teisberg. At its core, value-based care
provides financial incentives to patients, providers, and insurers to choose care that has greater
clinical value and avoid low-value care.
While the model has gained some traction, primarily among doctors and healthcare systems,
insurers have faced several barriers to adopting this approach. Notably, the complexity of
transitioning to a value-based model from fee-for-service payment systems, provider resistance,
patient unfamiliarity with how the model affects their care, and inadequate data infrastructure
have proven difficult for insurers to address. Some insurers have also expressed reservations about
whether their comparatively small market share gives them enough power to seriously change
practices of healthcare systems they service.
We believe there are important elements of value-based care that health insurers of any size can
leverage to bring higher quality care and lower costs to their members. Despite the particularities
of different healthcare systems, insurers are very well positioned to drive value-based care and lay
the groundwork for a larger transformation of these systems. (See Exhibit 3.)
Key Actions for Insurers to
Implement Value-Based Care
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 4

Principles
BCG‘s approach consists of five interlocking levers that health insurers can use as a framework to
begin to advance the practice of value-based care within healthcare systems. These levers apply
technology, policy, and data reporting to raise the profile—and the benefits—of value-based care in
the health insurer ecosystem.
Develop highly individualized tools
to guide policyholder choices.
Today, many of the interactions that health insurers have with policyholders are not focused on
their needs. By developing targeted, individualized communications and digital tools, insurers can
change members’ expectations and gain their trust on questions unrelated to insurance
reimbursement. At the same time, this shi in focus can differentiate insurers from other payers
and provide a competitive advantage.
To implement this change, insurers should update products to encourage value-based behavior by
policyholders. This can include preferred access to providers that balance quality and cost as well
as higher co-payments for choosing non-preferred providers or out-of-network hospitals.
Policyholders also can be offered incentives for receiving preventive care.
Engage policyholders with an
integrated digital portal.
When policyholders have questions about their health and care that are unrelated to coverage,
health insurers are typically not the first partner they turn to for advice. To encourage value-based
care behavior in policyholders, insurers need to become the focal point for all of their health-
related questions. By implementing easy-to-access and easy-to-use digital portals, insurers are
better positioned to influence consumers’ health choices.
Establish value-focused provider
networks.
Some countries have a standardized framework for what hospitals are allowed to charge and which
treatments they can offer; however, that is not the case in many developing countries. Providers
have considerable influence in these countries, including the freedom to determine the exact
method of treatment and the rates to charge insurers. Within this framework, by utilizing modern
analytics and stringent provider management, health insurers can successfully negotiate rates,
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 5

develop treatment packages, and have clear governance in place to ensure the highest quality
clinical care at an acceptable cost. Even if reimbursement rates are fixed, insurers can still benefit
by referring their clients to top providers with the best medical outcomes.
Promote quality measurement and
reporting.
Increasingly, health insurance companies have become interested in measuring and reporting on
quality of care. Payers see a new role for themselves to change the system proactively by leveraging
value-based incentive models. By tracking and analyzing additional data points and reporting
them to hospitals, they are also putting in place the foundation for value-based reimbursement.
The main issues insurers face in promoting and using quality data is the fragmented provider
sector and the lack of quality data about outcomes.
Provide care coordination to help
policyholders navigate the
healthcare system.
Care coordination solutions focus on addressing policyholder issues within the healthcare system,
particularly among different providers. Through care coordination, insurers can guide policyholders
through their healthcare “journey” and help them with selecting quality providers while managing
treatment costs.
Frequently, insurers are worried that they cannot influence, let alone steer, their policyholders’
health decisions. The implementation of care coordination gives insurers an opportunity to
establish trust with policyholders regarding their wellbeing. Therefore, insurers need to build up
capabilities to advise and help policyholders navigate the provider ecosystem and select quality
specialist services.
Key Technology Investments Fuel
Successful Implementation of
Value-Based Care
To address mounting cost pressures, health insurers must prioritize the implementation of value-
based care. Technology is crucial in these efforts, including adopting generative AI (GenAI) and
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 6

developing data and analytics capabilities. Without sufficient investment in technology, health
insurers will continue to operate programs in silos with limited cross-collaboration and with a
typically reactive mindset that fails to generate actionable insights. Concerns that a single insurer
is too small or not powerful enough to implement the value-based care model should no longer be
a limiting factor with the help of new tools. Two actions will be key to successful implementation.
Develop a cutting-edge data and
analytics platform.
As healthcare costs rise and governments or consumer demand limit insurance premium
increases, insurers are increasingly interested in using data and analytics more systematically.
There is an ever-increasing need to drive faster, more proactive insights; increase transparency
across programs; and better leverage technology to accelerate the rate of learning across insurance
organizations. Building the foundational technological capabilities, including an augmented set of
dashboards that leverage AI to generate cross-cutting insights, has become a necessity.
Adopt new technologies like GenAI
that promote individualized
interaction.
In the past, many interactions with policyholders used standardized materials and approaches
because tailoring information was prohibitively expensive. But with the help of new technologies,
individualized interactions can be affordable to design. “Digital first” is becoming the dominant
new approach at companies, and prioritizing digital channels helps address many pain points for
policyholders—such as access to medical records and examination results and long wait times for
appointments—while facilitating provider interactions with insurers.
While the value-based-care transformation of the world’s healthcare systems is just beginning,
these steps will enable health insurance companies to position themselves for its successful
adoption, improving their costs in the short term and providing policyholders with the best
possible care in the long term. We believe that even smaller insurers can benefit from the levers of
value-based healthcare outlined in this article. They can control rising costs, increase customer
satisfaction, and offer themselves as a true healthcare player rather than “just” a payer.
Importantly, insurers don’t need a dominant market share to benefit from these strategies, but
moving toward value-based approaches can improve their competitive position very early on.
©2025 Boston Consulting Group 7