Via Electronic Submission to: https://www.regulations.gov
February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Department of Health and Human Services
ASTP/ONC
Attn.: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A
330C Street, SW
Washington, DC 20201
RIN 0955-AA13: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of
Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
Dear Dr. Keane:
On behalf of its membership, the Pharmacy Health Information Technology
Collaborative (PHIT) is pleased to submit comments for the Request for Information:
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care.
PHIT has been involved with the federal agencies, including the Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National
Coordinator (ASTP/ONC) and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), in
developing the national health information technology (HIT) framework for implementing
secure access of electronic health information to improve health outcomes since 2010.
Pharmacists provide essential, patient-centered care services to their patients,
including Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Pharmacists use health IT, provider directories,
telehealth, e-prescribing (eRx), electronic medical record (EMR)/electronic health record (EHR)
systems, and certified EHR technology (CEHRT) to help manage patients’ health needs. PHIT
supports the use of these systems, which are important to pharmacists in working with other
health care providers to provide longitudinal person-centered care planning, needed
medications, and transmit patient information related to overall patient care, transitions of
care, immunization, medication lists, medication allergies, allergy reactions, patient problem
lists, smoking status, and social determinants of health (SDOH). Pharmacists also use health IT
for reporting to public health agencies (e.g., immunization reporting), clinical decision support
services/knowledge artifacts, drug formulary checking, comprehensive medication
management (CMM), and are starting to use artificial intelligence (AI) to enhance efficiency,
safety, and person-centered clinical care.
Pharmacy Health Information Technology Collaborative
| c/o ASCP, 1240 N Pitt St, Suite 300, Alexandria, VA 22314| www.pharmacyHIT.org|703-599-5051|

Our comments pertain primarily to question #1, regarding barriers to AI’s use in clinical
care, the issues and challenges, and presenting possible solutions.
Comments
PHIT supports the development and use of artificial intelligence (AI) that maintains
patient safety, privacy, equity, and public trust for use in pharmacy clinical care settings.
Additionally, PHIT supports a risk-proportionate framework that tailors appropriate regulatory
oversight with compliance requirements, while recognizing that regulations may not address all
problems that arise or potential ones. As AI for clinical care evolves, other solutions to
potential downstream issues may present themselves and not necessarily require regulatory
intervention.
Because AI and digital innovations provide an incredible opportunity for clinical care,
PHIT established a Clinical Workflow, Artificial Intelligence, and Digital Innovation (CAD)
Workgroup to improve quality patient care across the continuum by leveraging digital
innovation and AI at the intersection of clinical workflows and electronic standards (e.g.,
algorithmic clinical decision support (CDS), machine learning, augmented AI-human
intelligence, etc.). The workgroup assists PHIT in developing guidance for pharmacists and key
stakeholders about digital health, clinical aspects of e-prescribing, and workflow related to the
pharmacists’ patient care process (e.g., “Artificial Intelligence Considerations for Pharmacists”).
Some AI models are in use currently in various pharmacy settings for improving
medication safety and dispensing (e.g., identifying medication orders and prescriptions with
common errors, flagging interactions, and enabling the pharmacist to intervene before the
medication is dispensed), treatment protocols, enhancing clinical decision through clinical
decision support systems (CDSS), patient adherence, and operational efficiency. One example
is the National Council for Prescription Drug Program’s (NCPDP) Real-Time Prescription Benefit
(RTPB) standard that allows real-time transactions of patient-specific drug coverage, cost, and
formulary alternatives at the point of prescribing. This minimizes delays, improves medication
adherence, and provides accurate out-of-pocket estimates. It is a national AI ready
infrastructure that could be leveraged to help clinical care and advance HHS's AI strategy (see
also “Real Time Benefits Check: Improving the patient experience and reducing costs.)
Additionally, electronic prior authorization (ePA) in pharmacy is also rapidly evolving
from a simple digital form-submission tool into an AI-powered, automated process. These
systems are designed to eliminate the administrative burden of traditional fax/phone, reducing
prior authorization approval times from days to minutes by using AI to pre-populate forms,
analyze clinical data, and predict, rather than just submit, approvals (see also “Enhancing Prior
Authorization with Automation and AI-Powered Insights”).
Simultaneously, models with applications in clinical pharmacy practice for use in the
near future (e.g., disease treatment outcome prediction, clinical documentation and patient
chart analysis, pharmacovigilence, and patient education) are being developed, studied, and
tested.
2

Although the adoption of AI in pharmacy practice brings opportunities, it also brings
challenges, risks, and barriers. Accelerating the adoption and use of AI can offer significant
benefits, provided regulations and guardrails needed to ensure the integrity and safety of data
and patients remain in place and are not removed. There is some concern about the proposed
HTI-5 (Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability) rule with regard to reducing and removing
some AI certification criteria. As AI is a tool that needs appropriate and ethical management, AI
adoption must be done in a responsible way.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its use in
clinical care?
The larger barriers affecting AI use in clinical care include:
• Lack of proper infrastructure. Many pharmacies, as well as other health care providers, do
not have the specialized hardware needed for training and running AI efficiently. Basic AI
tasks can run on standard CPUs (central processing units); however, heavy workloads for
deep learning require expensive, high-performance hardware with specialized GPUs
(graphic processing units). Incentivizing pharmacists through PIPs could help in securing
needed specialized hardware (see Interoperability comment below).
• Interoperability. Not all existing pharmacy clinical care systems can connect with AI
technologies. Pharmacy systems have been moving toward interoperability, though it is not
fully where it needs to be. One reason for this is pharmacies were not included in, nor
incentivized, as numerous other health care providers were, through the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Promoting Interoperability Programs (PIPs), formerly
the EHR Incentive Programs or “Meaningful Use.”
“Although electronic health record (EHR) was considered from the beginning of its use,
pharmacy software systems have remained largely on the sidelines of these conversations,
and as a result, their current state of interoperability has been limited.”1 A 2023 pharmacy
data interoperability report by Leavitt Partners “found that many pharmacy stakeholders
have inconsistent capacities for importing clinical data to create patient profiles and analyze
clinical documentation. While some pharmacies have found innovative solutions for viewing
clinical data from other providers, other pharmacies have had to use outdated modalities
such as email, fax, or mail. Because of these technical limitations in interoperability,
pharmacists are hindered in their ability to deliver clinical care they were trained to provide,
further frustrating data interoperability modernization.”2 Interoperability limitations also
lead to fragmented data (see also Data quality comment below).
The Leavitt report also recommends that CMS include “pharmacies in existing and
emerging value-based care models” and “incentivize pharmacies to invest further in data
1Kenneth C. Hohmeier, Jason Ausli, Laila Hajyani, et al, “Early implementation of Pharmacist eCare Plan and electronic health
record integration: A proof-of-concept study on health information interoperability,” JAPhA Practice Innovations, October 2025.
2 “Supporting Pharmacy Data Interoperability: An Imperative for Patient Access and Outcomes,” Leavitt Partners, April 2023,
page 6.
3

interoperability by enabling them to contribute to patient value and share in revenue as
members of the interdisciplinary care team. This step could encourage pharmacy data
interoperability within existing statutory definitions of ‘provider.’”3
Including pharmacists in PIPs’ incentives would help strengthen interoperability and
ensure that pharmacists can obtain relevant clinical information, laboratory data,
medication changes, diagnoses, etc., in real time.
• Workforce challenges and skills gaps. AI adoption appears to be outpacing workforce
capability. Recent reports indicate that although AI adoption and usage in health care
increased in 2025, they highlight a significant gap between adoption rates and employer
training. A 2024 survey showed only 24% of health care workers received employer-
provided AI training, even though they are using AI tools.4 This survey also revealed that “AI
in health care is primarily used for administrative tasks, while more clinical applications are
still in the early stages of adoption.”5
• Contract clarity – liability. With the administration currently moving forward with
loosening and removing regulations to accelerate the development and adoption of AI,
liability allocation within contracts with AI health solution vendors becomes an even greater
concern that could impact the adoption of AI in health care settings, particularly
pharmacies. AI-generated content and recommendations influence medical and health care
decisions. Continued concern pertains to who is responsible if something goes wrong
regarding an AI recommendation.
“AI vendors position themselves as only a tool to health care providers and try to
disclaim liability for any downstream use.”6 Health care providers expect vendors to stand
behind their products, especially those products that generate clinical notes, diagnostic
suggestions, etc.7
The concern is that if regulations are loosened too much or removed, AI developers and
vendors will further limit their liability for their products and the content generated, making
health care providers the more liable because they are the users. Additionally, insurers are
starting to pivot away from AI liability. Three major insurers – AIG, Great American, and WR
Berkley – “recently submitted requests for regulatory approval to limit their liability for
claims arising from artificial intelligence systems, including chatbots and other automated
services.”8
If regulations are overly loosened or removed, pharmacists will need to try and
negotiate with AI vendors for specific indemnification for risks, such as algorithmic bias and
discrimination, data privacy breaches, incorrect AI-generated outputs (e.g., AI-specific
3 Ibid., page 12.
4 “Medscape and HIMSS Release 2024 Report on AI Adoption in Healthcare,” PRNewsire, December 6, 2024.
5 Ibid.
6 “AI Contracts in Health Care: Avoiding the Data Dumpster Fire,” Foley, June 26, 2025.
7 Ibid.
8 “Major Insurers are Pulling Back from AI Liability,” Metropolitan Risk blog, November 24, 2025.
4

errors), data use and training rights, and data leakage. AI developers and vendors tend not
to be open to assuming more liability; they prefer less liability.
If the goal is to accelerate the adoption of AI in health care, ASTP then needs to help
health care providers by developing model language for use in contracts so that shared
liability is equitable, as well as issuing risk-tier rules regarding liability allocation.
• Data quality – siloed and fragmented. Health data is often siloed and fragmented, many
times because of interoperability limitations, making it not only hard to train AI models but
also preventing health care decision-makers (including pharmacists) from seeing the full
picture. Siloed data, known as the silent killer of AI initiatives, reduces AI model accuracy
and reliability. Generative and predictive AI models trained on partial data cannot
understand the full context of a problem, which could lead to poor and inaccurate health
recommendations from AI. Data and recommendations from AI in clinical care need to be
trusted.
Many pharmacy patients see multiple providers that prescribe medications and use
various payment systems (e.g., pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs), health plans) that
create siloed and fragmented data.
“Because no standardized or universally available data-sharing solution exists for
pharmacies, health plans have implemented a number of workarounds. While pharmacy
systems seamlessly share data related to prescription drug claims between pharmacies and
health plans, the same infrastructure has not been applied for sharing clinical services or
clinical patient data. Therefore, when health plans and pharmacies collaborate on clinical
initiatives, such as transitions of care programs, chronic disease management or other
initiatives, data-sharing workarounds must be relied upon.”9
The result is a pharmacist working with “multiple plans on multiple patient care
initiatives may have to document via various fragmented and disconnected systems that
require varying types and formats of information to be entered, often manually.”10
• Data and algorithmic bias. AI algorithms used to treat and diagnose patients can have
biases. Such bias in AI arises when it is trained on biased data. Although it may not be
intentional, medical data contain bias, which could perpetuate historical bias.11 Bias that
occurs in health care settings is generally found in patient notes. If data from those notes
are given to an AI model, the model will learn and reproduce those biases.12
Data bias increases the risk of discrimination in health care. If data lack diversity (e.g.,
age, gender, ethnicity, geographic locations, socioeconomic status, language, customs,
cultural, etc.) and is used for AI training, then the data are misrepresentative of the full
9 Ibid., page 9.
10 Ibid., page 9.
11 Sian Carey, Allan Pang, Marc de Kamps, “Fairness in AI for healthcare,” Future Healthcare Journal, Volume 11, Issue 3,
September 2024.
12 Ibid.
5

population.13 Most health care data used to train AI models for use in the United States
comes from patients in the U.S., China, and parts of Europe.14 Not all patient data used to
train AI is representative of the U.S. population. “AI systems trained on biased data often
perform poorly when applied to populations with different genetic backgrounds, disease
prevalence, or environmental exposures.”15
Health care and health care systems will face challenges in addressing algorithmic
biases, especially as it relates to medications. AI for clinical care should be held to
standardized outcomes-focused metrics to ensure accuracy and to reduce risks that may
cause patient harm.
• Data privacy and security concerns. AI relies on vast amounts of patient data. Collecting
vast amounts of data creates privacy and security challenges. Health care practice settings,
including pharmacies, using AI are more vulnerable to data breaches and cyber-attacks
targeting patient information, drug data, etc., particularly as more pharmacists and other
health care providers use chatbots, such as ChatGPT, in health care.16 “Using ChatGPT can
put users at risk of losing control of sensitive patient information, source code, and more,”17
especially if patient identifiable information is inadvertently provided. As chatbots have
become the go-to interface for interacting with large language models (LLMs), not one LLM
does it all. This means multiple chatbots may likely be used, further increasing data privacy
and security risks.
Those adopting AI tools in health care will need to ensure the tools they use comply
with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), as the data being used
by AI may likely include protected health information (PHI), personal data, and health data.
In this regard, AI developers and vendors need oversight.
• Expertise replacement. Relying solely on AI, without incorporating augmented AI, for
health care recommendations presents safety, clinical care, and liability risks. Pharmacists
play a vital role in bridging the gap between technology and personalized care. Integrating
AI into clinical care should not overshadow the human element of care; augmented AI as
the assistive role of AI can help in this regard. AI systems can make mistakes, and without
human oversight, errors can result in patient harm. Safeguards must be put into place to
ensure that a human verifies the accuracy and completeness of AI recommendations that
impact patient care.
Among the AI adoption and usage training needed in the health care workforce are:
data literacy (i.e., how to interpret AI-driven data, evaluate algorithms, and recognize
potential biases), understanding AI bias in AI models to prevent inequity in patient care,
managing human-AI collaboration, auditing AI-generated content (e.g., drug interaction
13 Kathleen Kenny, PharmD, RPh, “Carefully Consider Ethical Implications of Artificial Intelligence Use in Pharmacy, Pharmacy
Times, November 29, 2025.
14 Gabriel Onuh, “AI in healthcare risks could exclude 5 billion people; here’s what we know about it,” World Economic Forum,
October 2025.
15 Ibid.
16 Li J, “Security Implications of AI Chatbots in Health Care,” J Med Internet Res 2023; 25:e47551.
17 Ibid.
6

checks, dosage recommendations), and integrating AI into clinical practice, especially into
existing workflows.
Training is also needed in data privacy, patient safety, and ethical considerations to
avoid over-reliance on technology.
• Costs. AI adoption is an expensive investment and may be prohibitive for some health care
providers, especially small providers. Although small-scale basic AI systems start average
between $10,000-$50,000, total implementation often start at $1 million and can exceed
$10 million.18 Mid-sized is $100,000-$500,000, while enterprise grade AI solutions can be
$1 million-$10 million.19 These costs are for initial implementation, not ongoing operational
and maintenance costs (average 15-30% of the original build cost); retraining and model
updates (AI is not static); infrastructure usage increases; and security, compliance, and risk
management.20
• Trust and ethics. This is the top-tier concern and barrier in AI adoption. Clinician trust in AI
and machine learning (ML)-based predictive DSI (differentiable search indexing) will be
crucial for adoption. A lack of trust comes from AI associated risks, such as bias and
fairness, data privacy, accountability and security, and limited transparency. As AI becomes
integrated into decision-making processes, ethical implications and concerns are arising.
Studies indicate that people lack trust in AI to make ethical decisions, which is critical in
health care, especially for patient safety.
Deloitte’s most recent survey of 1,800 businesses and technical professionals globally,
conducted in 2024, showed that 54% of respondents said AI “posed the most severe ethical
risk among emerging technologies, with top concerns for GenAI being data privacy,
transparency, and data provenance.”21 Further, the aforementioned study published by
JAPhA indicated that 34.9% of pharmacists expressed some degree of distrust of AI.22
AI faces many ethical dilemmas, especially in health care, as it is not inherently ethical
(lacks moral agency). The use of AI in health care raises ethical concerns related to patient
privacy, data, recommendations for treatment provided by diagnostic tools, and the
potential for AI to replace human expertise.
AI can be designed and taught to produce ethical, fair, and transparent outcomes,
provided ethical training is built in. To do that, AI developers must proactively mitigate bias
in training data; create algorithms that are interpretable, allowing humans to understand
the reasoning behind AI decisions; and be human-centric, aligning with human values.
To build trust in AI, however, government agencies need to be careful in loosening and
removing regulations and other guardrails designed to ensure the development and use of
18 Lina Taposhi, “The True Cost of Implementing AI in Business in 2026,” Rise Up Labs.
19 Ibid.
20 Ibid.
21 “State of Ethics and Trust in Technology Report,” Deloitte, September 2024.
22 Ibid., “Pharmacists’ perceptions,” JAPhA.
7

AI in health care in general, clinical care specifically, is safe and does not harm patients.
Trust is crucial because AI systems will be making decisions that can significantly impact
individuals and society.
Patient safety and safeguarding public health need to be the top priority in AI-health
care development.
2. What HHS regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize
to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or
programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care?
Pharmacists need to be included in the CMS PIPs incentives as eligible health
professionals. When the program was launched in 2011 as the EHR Incentive Programs or
“Meaningful Use” to promote the adoption of and meaningful use of Certified Electronic Health
Record Technology (CEHRT), pharmacists were excluded from the program. PHIT has requested
numerous times since the program’s inception that the Secretary remedy this oversight.
Although pharmacists have adopted EHR technology without incentives, as other health
care professionals have been afforded, not being included in the incentive program is one of
the reasons achieving interoperability in pharmacy settings has been slow and not fully where it
needs to be.
With the rapid advancement and integration of AI into pharmacy practice, PHIT strongly
believes it is time to include pharmacists in PIPs for needed incentives to adopt AI and so that
full interoperability can finally be realized.
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities (e.g., accreditation, certification, industry
driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in clinical care?
• Develop an AI toolkit to assist health care providers to safely integrate AI into clinical care.
ASTP currently provides tool kits for health care providers that support effective
implementation of health IT, interoperability, patient engagement, and EHR.
• Reactivate the ASTP Health IT Advisory Committee’s (HITAC) Pharmacy Interoperability and
Emerging Therapeutics Task Force to help address concerns and make further
recommendations to move AI adoption forward. In 2023, the pharmacy task force put
forward Recommendation 13 that included an AI component.
• Continue certification for developers of health IT, particularly AI, ML, deep learning AI, etc.
Certification would increase trust in AI.
• Because loosening and removing regulations will impact contracts between AI vendors and
health care providers, ASTP should develop model language for providers to use so that
shared liability is equitable. This could be part of an AI toolkit (noted above). As mentioned
previously, with the forthcoming changes from HTI-5, AI vendors will likely seek to further
limit their liability, making health care providers more liable because they are users of the AI
vendors’ products (see above “Contract clarity – liability” comments).
8

• Establish a harmonized, risk-proportionate federal framework across federal health
agencies and state-level requirements. A unified framework would provide clarity and
support AI deployment in clinical care settings, including pharmacies.
• Include pharmacists in PIPs as eligible health professionals for those incentives, which will
help alleviate interoperability limitations. Pharmacists are consistently ranked among the
top three most trusted professionals in the United States, and they provide a range of
extensive clinical care services, especially to Medicare patients. In many rural areas,
pharmacists are often the only immediate accessible health care providers.
• Invest in public-private partnerships and demonstration projects that validate AI clinical
care referral models in real-world pharmacy settings.
****
The Pharmacy HIT Collaborative comprises the major national pharmacy associations,
representing 250,000 members. PHIT’s membership is composed of the key national pharmacy
associations involved in health IT, the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs, and
associate members encompassing e-prescribing, health information networks, transaction
processing networks, pharmacy companies, system vendors, pharmaceutical manufacturers,
and other organizations that support pharmacists’ services.
As the leading authority in pharmacy health information technology, PHIT’s vision and
mission are to ensure the U.S. health IT infrastructure better enables pharmacists to optimize
person-centered care. Supporting and advancing the use, usability, and interoperability of
health IT by pharmacists for person-centered care, PHIT identifies and voices the health IT
needs of pharmacists; promotes awareness of functionality and pharmacists’ use of health IT;
provides resources, guidance, and support for the adoption and implementation of standards-
driven health IT; and guides health IT standards development to address pharmacists’ needs.
For additional information, visit www.pharmacyhit.org.
*****
On behalf of PHIT, thank you again for the opportunity to comment on the Request for
Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
For more information, contact Jeff Rochon, Executive Director, Pharmacy HIT
Collaborative, at jeff@pharmacyhit.org.
Respectfully submitted,
Jeff Rochon, Pharm.D.
Executive Director
Pharmacy HIT Collaborative
jeff@pharmacyhit.org
9

Chad Worz, PharmD, BCGP
Chief Executive Officer
American Society of Consultant Pharmacists (ASCP)
cworz@ascp.com
Ronna B. Hauser, PharmD
Senior VP, Policy & Pharmacy Affairs
National Community Pharmacists Association (NCPA)
ronna.hauser@ncpa.org
Michael D. Hogue, PharmD, FAPhA, FNAP, FFIP
Executive Vice President and CEO
American Pharmacists Association (APhA)
mhogue@aphanet.org
Scott Anderson, PharmD, MS, CPHIMS,
FASHP, FVSHP
Director, Member Relations
American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (ASHP)
SAnderson@ashp.org
Kevin Nicholson, R.Ph., JD,
Vice President of Policy, Regulatory, and Legal Affairs
National Association of Chain Drug Stores(NACDS)
KNicholson@NACDS.org
Kathy Pham, Pharm.D., BCPPS
Senior Director, Policy and Professional Affairs
American College of Clinical Pharmacy (ACCP)
kpham@accp.com
10