To whom it may concern,
I wanted to start with a simple “Thank you” for opening the opportunity to submit not just for
entrenched players, but also individuals, patients, and providers who have a difference they
would like to see.
I’ve selected questions where I have interest and expertise below.
Chris Hemphill
TD–1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
and caregivers?
3 major challenges that developers face in building digital health products:
● Payment pathways - even when digital health solutions show improvements in
outcomes, health organizations (fee for service especially) skip these tools because of
difficulties funding and billing for them
● Integration - heavily addressed in the RFI, but it’s worth noting the current environment
favors big, entrenched systems that place arbitrary barriers to entry on “venture capital
scale” innovations
● Regulatory oversight mismatched - developers must invest millions of dollars in
compliance science whose objectives and outcomes don’t address the needs and
interests of the patients, providers, and payers that their tools serve
In the short term -
● Collaborate with innovators on the appropriate science needed for reimbursement
pathways. Innovators seeking reimbursement pathways have myriad outcomes and
engagement styles. So when evaluating for safety and efficacy, one size does not fit all.
Perhaps this is too big a burden for the FDA as it’s staffed at the moment, but there
needs to be collaboration and clarity for scientific evaluations
● Lead by example with greater flexibility and openness with billing for digital health/digital
mental health scenarios. Should innovators focus on answering for billing codes, or
should they focus on answering for improving lives and wellbeing? With CMS paving the
way for how the rest of the industry sets and pegs pricing, setting more flexible
standards could have positive ripple effects throughout industry
● Convene with a variety of innovators to better understand their needs and roadblocks.
Ensure representation across the sector, pulling from seed & pre-seed startups along
with organizations across the range. Bias towards allowing for competitiveness and
innovation and bias against those simply trying to wield influence to build regulatory
“moats”

TD–2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest— a. What additional data
would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs? b. What data sources are
most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue Button 2.0 API? c. What
obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today? d. What other APIs should CMS
and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies to unleash innovation and support
patients and providers?
Payer pricing transparency data has standards set by CMS, but it isn’t offered in the API. It is a
major challenge to dissect the myriad files because of the variances in how various players
format them. Standardization and incorporation into the API could really help with overall efforts
around fair pricing for consumers.
TD–4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available
APIs over proprietary APIs?
Innovators often don’t know the scope of what’s available from CMS. The more they know about
what’s available in the open, the less they will rely on proprietary APIs, which in many cases
simply reskin data CMS has made available.
The answer from TD-1 introduces collaborating on science and evidence needed to justify
billing. Good collaboration would include making API recommendations where you see gaps in
their strategies.
TD–9. Regarding certification of health IT: a. What are the benefits of redefining
certification to prioritize API-enabled capabilities over software functionality?
API-first design encourages good software design principles overall, and it really is important for
developers to think in terms of how their software enables outcomes across the ecosystem
rather than just driving their own ROI metrics.
IT departments grow tired of managing large numbers of point solutions, but targeted,
purposeful solutions often outperform broad focused platforms.
There is a growing “curated garden” approach where companies like NovaWell provide a single
experience that encompasses many applications. Vendors should be ready and able to adapt to
that “happy medium” approach to the platform vs point solution debate.
TD–12. Should CMS endorse non- CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what
criteria or metrics should CMS consider?
For non-CMS data sources that either cover gaps in CMS’s data universe OR reskin CMS data
in a way that’s more beneficial to pools of users, I believe there should be some
acknowledgement and endorsement. This of course demands investigating said sources, but

with the theme towards data exchange, innovators need to be informed as much as possible on
the various ways they can enable this.
TD–13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing
access to the entirety of a patient’s electronic health information (EHI)? a. What are the
primary obstacles to this? b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI,
especially VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:41 May 15, 2025 Jkt 265001 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt
4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\16MYN1.SGM 16MYN121040 Federal Register/Vol. 90, No.
94/Friday, May 16, 2025/Notices given more flexible data processing capabilities today?
Where this has been done on a smaller scale on a paid basis, scientists & developers have
been able to develop predictive models based on this data.