Better Communication. Better Health Outcomes.
June 10, 2025
To Whom It May Concern:
On behalf of CONNEXiONS, I am grateful for the opportunity to provide input on the Request for
Information (RFI) on Advancing AI and Digital Innovation in Healthcare (Document No. 2025‑08701).
We commend CMS and ONC for recognizing both the promise and the risks of AI-powered
technologies in shaping the future of care delivery.
At CONNEXiONS, we believe the single most powerful lever to improve health outcomes is better
communication between patients and providers. Our browser-based platform uses AI-powered,
empathic digital avatars to simulate real-world conversations. Our avatars can be programmed to
either:
● Role-play as patients for clinician training, helping providers strengthen their
communication skills through safe, realistic simulations; or
● Act as personal health advisors for patients and caregivers, delivering tailored, multilingual,
24/7 support that improves understanding, reduces confusion, and prepares patients to
participate in shared decision-making.
We strongly support CMS’s interest in tools that address health literacy, behavioral engagement,
care navigation, and health equity. We see several key alignments between CONNEXiONS and the
objectives of this RFI:
1. A Safer, More Human-Centered AI
We have implemented technical, behavioral, and design guardrails to ensure that our digital avatars
do not produce harmful or inappropriate outputs.
2. Support for Providers and Patients Alike
AI is often deployed either for clinicians or for patients. We believe the most powerful results come
when it’s deployed for both, helping each side prepare for higher-quality conversations. This dual
use is rare in the market and central to our approach.
3. Rigor and Real-World Validation
Our platform is being piloted with major academic partners. In a recent pilot study we conducted
with clinicians as part of a Harvard Medical School continuing medical education (CME) course (The
Serious Illness Conversation), we found that 95% of clinicians felt more confident in having serious
illness conversations with their patients after training with our simulations. We’re now preparing to
launch a new study with McGill University Medical Centre, exploring how our Personal Health
Advisor avatars can support patients with lung cancer and their caregivers.
CONNEXiONS, Inc.
15 Clarke Street, Unit 8, Newport, Rhode Island USA 02840 | www.connexions.studio | 401.428.5750

Better Communication. Better Health Outcomes.
4. Alignment with CMS Value-Based Care Priorities
Many of healthcare’s costliest problems, both in terms of human suffering and economic impact,
are due to poor-quality patient-provider communication (the norm, not the exception). By
supporting clinicians in being better communicators, and patients and caregivers in being better
informed, CONNEXiONS directly addresses significant and persistent problems in care delivery,
including:
● Medicine Non-Adherence
● Operational Bottlenecks
● Patient Callbacks
● No-Show Rates
● Readmissions
● Clinician Burnout
● Patient Confusion
● Medical Errors
● Malpractice Risk
● Patient Mistrust
We encourage CMS and ONC to promote programs, payment models, and partnerships that reward
and de-risk the deployment of AI tools focused on relational quality, not just throughput or
documentation.
We welcome the opportunity to share insights from our clinical research and platform technology,
and to participate in future federal initiatives focused on safe, effective, and equity-oriented digital
health innovation.
With respect,
Adam Blumenthal
CEO, CONNEXiONS
Adjunct Faculty, Brown University, School of Engineering
Associate Faculty, Ariadne Labs, Brigham and Women’s Hospital
adam@connexions.studio
www.connexions.studio
CONNEXiONS, Inc.
15 Clarke Street, Unit 8, Newport, Rhode Island USA 02840 | www.connexions.studio | 401.428.5750