American Association for Homecare 2611 S. Clark Street , Suite 600 ,Arlington, VA 22202 aahomecare.org Submitted Electronically: Regulations.gov June 16 , 2025 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services Attention: CMS -0042-NC P.O. Box 8013 Baltimore, MD 21244-8013. Re: CMS Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS -0042-NC) Introduction The American Association for Homecare (AAHomecare) is the national association representing durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies (DMEPOS) suppliers, manufacturers, and other stakeholders in the homecare community. Our members are proud to be part of the continuum of care that assures beneﬁciaries, and other patients receive cost eﬀective, safe, and reliable home care products and services. AAHomecare is pleased to submit these recommendations in response to the above - captioned re quest for information (RFI) . The following comments in response to the RFI outline key recommendations to enhance health technology use across the DMEPOS industry, with a focus on both t raditional Medicare and Medicare Advantage ( MA) plans, as well as Medicaid managed care o rganizations (MCOs). These recommendations include requiring ePrescribing for DMEPOS and implementing greater transparency measures, especially in regard s to utilization data and the use of artiﬁcial intelligence. Improving eﬃciency and transparency in these area s will support timely service delivery, strengthen program integrity, and reduce unnecessary administrative burdens across all payer types. AAHomecare R equests That CMS Take S teps to Mandate ePrescribing for All DMEPOS O rders DMEPOS ePrescribing is an electronic ordering method that allows the prescriber to send a DMEPOS order to a supplier. ePrescribing has many beneﬁts including (i) streamlining the prescription process; (ii) improving CMS’ ability to audit documentation for DMEPOS claims; and (iii) reducing costs for prescribers, suppliers and the federal government. AAHomecare believes that many DMEPOS suppliers would invest in ePrescribing platforms if there was a clear CMS policy stating that ePrescribing is an acceptable means of creating, transmitting and col lecting required documentation. CMS guidance must state that all electronic documentation must meet the same requirements as other documentation requirements. If CMS does not believe it has the authority to do so, it should seek the authority from Congress. Current State of DMEPOS ePrescribing There are currently approximately four predominant ePrescribing platforms utilized by the DMEPOS industry, a ll oﬀering robust services and integration capabilities. Feedback from the supplier community 
 2 on incorporating ePrescribing into their operations has been tremendously positive, with all reporting signiﬁcant improvements in the eﬃciency of the ordering process . However, the utilization of ePrescribing platforms within the DMEPOS industry represents just a fraction of total orders, leaving many still reliant on a fully paper -based process. Although CMS has the authority to encourage ePrescribing for DMEPOS orders, the Medicare P rogram Integrity Ma n u a l n e e d s t o b e u p d a t e d t o r e f l e c t t h e u s e o f a r e vised definition of allowed templates . ePrescribing Enhances Coordination of Care ePrescribing facilitates seamless , real -time communication between healthcare providers and DMEPOS suppliers, enhancing coordination and continuity of care. By integrating with electronic health records (EHRs ) and other health IT systems, enabling interoperability and comprehensive patient management. Embracing ePrescribing on a wider scale holds the potential to elevate patient access to care in a timely manner . Wider adoption can improve reducing delays, minimizing documentation errors, and ensuring timely delivery of medically necessary equipment and supplies. By embedding documentation requirements into the ordering workﬂow, ePrescribing supports providers and DMEPOS suppliers to adhere to Medicare requirements , bolsters accountability and transparency, thereby serving as a safeguard against fraud and abuse. ePrescribing Supports Program Integrity ePrescribing can be a powerful tool in combat ing fraud and abuse by establishing transparent processes for generating and recording prescription orders. Through authentication measures and validation checks, these systems verify the integrity of transactions, minimizing the risk of unauthorized activiti es. The platforms available today also have analytics that can flag suspicious patterns such as unusually high ordering volumes, repeated orders for the same items, or orders outside a physician's typical spe cialty. This enables real-time intervention and compliance coaching. The availability of such technology that can allow all stakeholders to effortlessly access and track logged orders from initiation to fulfillment encourages accountability and good behavior throughout the ordering process . From physicians to supplier intake staff, the ability to track the order start to finish, and understand that it may be reviewed or audited, encourages improved compliance behavior across the ecosyste m. In addition, ePrescribing promotes clarity and completeness of orders, which helps with reducing both unintended errors (“ fraud -by-error”) as well as intentional abuse. With paper -based orders, intake staff regularly contend with illegible handwriting, incomplete forms, and vague clini cal documentation. ePrescribing on the other hand, standardizes the order submission, encourages orders to be complete and required information to be captured in a clear format. ePrescribing Improves Auditability Comprehensive audit trails generated by ePrescribing platforms enable auditors to effectively track and investigate any potential instances of fraud or abuse. Every action in an ePrescribing system generates a digital footprint —including who ordered what, when, and for whom. This enables both proactive fraud detection and retroactive auditing , supporting both compliance teams and external audit ors (e.g., OIG). ePrescribing creates a digital trail of actions, making it easier to track and audit orders for co mpliance, billing, and regulatory purposes. ePrescribing platforms also provide support for DME suppliers' compliance officers with tools that help them identify and deter bad actors with in their organizations. The structured, timestamped, and 
 3 authenticated nature of ePrescr ibing records makes it easier fo r CMS, auditors, and the OIG to verify order legitimacy— strengthening trust in DME processes. ePrescribing Promotes Eﬃciency ePrescribing streamlines administrative processes, reduces paperwork and eliminates the need for manual/paper handling, which saves time and resources for all stakeholders . ePrescribing eliminates this loophole by requiring real- time, user -authenticated submission. Additional Recommendations on ePrescribing For a successful implementation that does not add additional burden for suppliers, CMS would need to issue guidance clarifying that ePrescribing applications are considered an extension of the prescriber’s medical records. When the prescriber, or their designee, is using ePrescribing to order DMEPOS, that electronic record must be considered to be part of the medical record because it is being created and communicated by or on behalf of the prescriber. In addition, AAHomecare requests CMS to make the oxygen clinical data elements (CDE s) that were developed by the Mettles pilot to be publicly available for use. CDEs will help guide physicians in answering structured questions and will result in contractor nurse reviewers not having to rely on notes from the medical record. Adopting the CDEs, w h i c h w e r e a p p r o v e d b y C M S a n d D M E M A C s , will improve the consistency and objectivity of the reviews. Medicare Advantage Plans Should be Required to Publish Data Demonstrating They Provide Suﬃcient Access to Care CMS should require Medicare Advantage (MA) plans to establish clear network adequacy criteria by DMEPOS product category and by geographic area to ensure there is real patient choice. For example, some DMEPOS suppliers only provide respiratory items and servic es while others only provide complex rehab technology (CRT) items and services. There should be multiple DMEPOS suppliers providing the same product category in a geographic area. CMS and/or the MA plan s should establish metrics to determine when network a dequacy has been met for each product category in the DMEPOS space. CMS currently has established time and distance requirements for many other provider types (e.g., hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, physicians and home health agencies). CMS should tr ack and analyze these metrics on an annual basis to determine whether there are access to care issues. AAHomecare recommends that MA plans be required to include these network adequacy metrics in their published in their provider directories. AAHomecare we lcomes the opportunity to work with CMS to develop metrics that would ensure access to care. When a DMEPOS supplier identiﬁes a potential access issue, there should be a clear channel within CMS for DMEPOS suppliers to escalate concerns. In the DMEPOS market, access issues can be due to a lack of competition in a market for a particular product c ategory, resulting in essentially no patient choice of supplier. In lieu of a MA plan’s attestation of access to care, CMS should require MA plans to conﬁrm compliance via submission of data that meets prescribed access to care metrics, such as: o Beneﬁciary satisfaction, complaints, and o The number of in -network DME suppliers, by product category and by geography. The number should be based upon the number of in -network DME suppliers that have submitted claims within the last 12 months to ensure that only active suppliers are counted. If an MA plan falls short in meeting any of these metrics, it must add providers to its network to ﬁll the deﬁciencies within a speciﬁed timeframe. 
 4 MA Plans Should be Required to Publicly Disclose and Report Whether They Are Using Any Form of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) as Part of the Claims Processing or P rior Authorization processes. The algorithms and AI technology standards should be available for free to the public. MA plans often utilize AI for claims processing and PA processes, but these systems often lack the clinical nuance necessary to accurately evaluate complex medical records. This can result in inappropriate denials or delays in medically necessary services and poses signiﬁcant risks to patient care and provider burden. To ensure accountability and protect beneﬁciaries, especially for patients with chronic or complex con ditions, CMS should require MA Plans to disclose and report their use of AI. MA Plans Should B e Required to Publicly Disclose and Report All Prior Authorization Statistics for DMEPOS Items, by Product Category. In addition, if an MA plan utilizes third party administrators (TPAs), or if an MA plan owns a DME supplier, those TPAs should be required to report the same metrics, including: o The number of PAs requested, o The number of PAs approved, o The number of PAs denied, o Number of PAs that are partially approved or denied, o The number of PAs appealed, o The number of PAs that are overturned after appeal, and at what level those reversals occurred, o The total number of PAs approved and denied within prescribed timeline, such as quarterly, and o The number of PAs that are denied based upon technical versus medical need reasons. FOIA Data Should Be A vailable for Medicare Advantage Plans and Medicaid Managed Care P lans. While state Medicaid programs and Medicare Fee -For-Service are subject to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the same level of transparency is not required of MA plans and Medicaid managed care organizations (MCOs), despite the fact that a majority of beneﬁciaries are either enrolled in a MA or MCO. This discrepancy allows critical data to be withheld from public access, limiting stakeholders’ ability to assess beneﬁciary access, monitor program integrity, and identify opportunities to improve care. C MS should require MA plans and MCOs to make data publicly available in a manner consistent with how Medicare claims data is accessible through FOIA. Conclusion Thank you for the opportunity to provide this information. If you have any questions, or would like further information, please contact me at kimb@aahomecare.org Sincerely, Kim Brummett Senior Vice President, Regulatory Aﬀairs American Association for Homecare 