Society for Psychoanalysis and Psychoanalytic Psychology (Division 39)
American Psychological Association
The Society for Psychoanalysis and Psychoanalytic Psychology (SPPP) is a division of
the American Psychological Association representing psychologists and allied
disciplines concerned with practice, theory, and research in psychoanalysis. SPPP is
registering its concerns about the uses of Artificial Intelligence generally and agentic AI
in particular. Our concerns fall into the following headings: Patient Safety, Privacy,
Clinical Efficacy and Quality, Clear and Enforceable Regulation.
1. Patient Safety
Federal and state governments historically have been responsible for ensuring public
safety through regulation of health care products, and regulation of health care
clinicians through credentialing and oversight systems. AI application in clinical settings
and services should be held to comparable or higher standards in order to ensure the
health and wellbeing of patients. Without federal regulation the oversight of AI is left to
corporations with financial interests in promoting their products or to myriad and
inconsistent state laws to determine how AI is deployed in health care. This will lead to
a patchwork of inconsistent standards that likely lead to a decline in public safety. In
mental health, we have already seen suicides and other forms of self-injuries by
vulnerable people that have been encouraged by unregulated AI applications.
2. Privacy
Psychotherapy requires strict requirements to ensure confidentiality of deeply sensitive
and personal information that inevitable arises mental health care. Many AI chatbots
that are heavily marketed for mental health support are not subject to HIPAA
regulations. There is no regulation of the use of sensitive personal information for
marketing or development purposes. Such information is open to data breaches, which
may cause serious, ireparable harm to those who use them. Regulations are therefore
necessary for AI applications in health care comply with HIPAA regulations at a
minimum.
3. Clinical Efficacy
AI applications are liable to make inaccurate outputs that people rely upon to make
major decision about their mental health or for others. Corporate standards for use and
marketing of their AI products fail to measure their effectiveness adequately. Rigorous

analysis of meaningful health metrics such as patient outcome including sustained
symptom remission and recovery, analysis of dropout rates, and a multimodal analysis
of measures of improvement in quality of life are necessary to ensure safe and effective
use. Scientific standards require that such data be collected and analyzed by qualified,
independent evaluators.
4. Clinical Quality
In addition to rigorous analysis of clinical efficacy (above), the therapist-patient
relationship has been shown to be the best predicter of treatment outcome. The
capacity to develop a deep, meaningful, and thoughtful therapeutic relationship takes
careful training. It entails years of study and supervision for a therapist to purposely use
themselves to engage patients to deal with painful, sensitive issues, and to create a
facilitating partnership that imbues therapy with the hope and courage that is critical for
genuine growth to occur.