 Response from HealthShare Exchange (HSX) to CMS Request for Information on Health Technology Ecosys tem Reference: File Code CMS-0042-NC HealthShare Exchange (HSX) is the Health Informatio n Exchange (HIE) organization for the Greater Philadelphia area, covering Pennsylvania, N ew Jersey, and Delaware. We are pleased to respond to the CMS RFI on Health Technology Ecosyst em. About HSX Health Share Exchange (HSX) is a health information exchange (HIE), providing secure data exchange to healthcare providers in the greater Phi ladelphia region, including New Jersey and Delaware. HSX connects hospitals, physician practic es, nursing homes, post-acute care facilities, health plans, home care organizations and behaviora l health providers. All these organizations need the most accurate and up-to-date information a bout their patients to provide the best and most efficient care possible. HSX services deliver real-time clinical information to our members, including a patient’s medical history as well as notifications to enable improved outcomes, care coordination and more cost- effective care. HSX is a HITRUST-certified organiza tion, a Pennsylvania P3N certified Health Information Organization (HIO), a State of New Jers ey Trusted Data Sharing Organization (TDSO) and is part of the national eHealth Exchange . HSX is expanding the connected healthcare circle by adding community-based organizations (CBOs) in the network of caregivers, moving from an HIE to a Community Information Exchange (CIE). Food banks, housing agencies, benefits coord inators, transportation agencies, community centers and other community service organizations p lay a vital role in the care of the patient. Through the PA Navigate program, HSX connects healt h provider organizations with community-based socio-economic support services to create a closed-loop referral system – connecting patients with services and keeping the c are team in the loop. For additional information on HSX see www.healthshareexchange.org Patients and Caregivers - PC PC-6. What features are most important to make digi tal health products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, part icularly those with limited prior experience using digital tools and services? 
 One of the major drawbacks of EHR-based patient por tals is that patients need to use a different portal, or app, with a different user ID and password, and different navigation options, if they see physicians and care providers with diff erent EHRs. A single patient-access application would give patients access to all their data using a single app. HIEs such as HSX can function as data aggregators for single patient acc ess applications, avoiding the need for patients to maintain multiple accounts and multiple portals. HIEs can support proactive care decisions like navigating a patient towards a lower cost community service (i.e., food pantry) or connect patients who qualify for healthcare benefit s (i.e., prescription assistance) keeping patients out of high-cost ERs and staying healthy. HIEs like HSX can also be a key supplier of data to these digital health products further enabling these products value and capabilities to the patien ts they serve, resulting in lowering costs, improving patients experience and overall health ou tcomes. PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readi ly available and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence? HIEs such as HSX function as regional health data a ggregator for patient health data which would include data from large-vendor healthcare pro viders, but also data from urgent care centers, FQHCs, post-acute facilities, etc. HSX en ables access to this critical data via a variety of services to over 100,000 providers and care coordin ators across our region. As clinical data aggregator, HSX can support clinic al research projects, with patient consent, or with de-identified data, IRB-approved. Healthcare r esearchers see great value in HSX and come to HSX for two main reasons: - HSX is a single source for data from multiple provi ders - HSX is a single party for contracting, avoiding hav ing to set up individual contracts for multiple provider organizations. To make this possible, HSX created a research use-case, approved by all members, with tight provisions for patient consent and data privacy, which governs all clinical research studies using HSX data. PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world? HSX receives health information from over 700 healt hcare provider organizations in this greater Philadelphia tri-state region. Today, the main use case for this data is to provide access to this data to other authorized healthcare providers and h ealth plans who have a treatment / payment /operations relationship with the patient w hose data they access. (Patients have the 
 right to opt out of sharing). Most patients access their data via the EHR portals from their multiple healthcare providers. HIEs such as HSX can provide direct patient access to their data via approved apps or applications, with appropriate consent, identificat ion, authorization and security, controlled by patients or their care givers. Our platform suppor ts the FHIR APIs to provide this access. We expect that direct patient access to regional HIE d ata sources eliminates the challenge that patients face when they receive care at multiple or ganizations, with multiple EHRs, requiring multiple portals. HSX can filter the data queries by provider organiz ation and by EHR. This means, that if a patient-facing healthcare app has a direct connecti on to a national EHR (for example Epic), they can query HSX for data from non-Epic EHRs, thus avo iding data duplication. a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find t he data they share to be? HSX data comes directly from participating organiza tions EHRs, in the form of C-CDA documents and ADT messages. The data is accurate, and in real -time. This now is starting to include social determinants of health (SDoH) data for a broader vi ew of the entire patient’s needs. There is variability in the data-items that we receive from healthcare providers. We expect that broader implementation of USCDI will fill in the data gaps that exist. The current USCDI version is comprehensive, in our view, but not yet fully imple mented by EHR vendors and healthcare providers. Through the use of HSX’s data sharing platform, ove rall healthcare costs are lowered and healthcare outcomes improved. b. What changes would you suggest? Broader implementation of data sharing following th e USCDI model – not only with support from EHR vendors, but also with expectations of ful l implementation and activation by healthcare providers that they enable and share the full USCDI data set for all patients, all encounters. c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe should be propagated across markets? HSX considers its model an example of an high-perfo rming, independent and neutral HIE, connecting competing entities including health syst ems and health plans all in agreement in use of and sharing data via HSX. HSX receives clinical data from a broad range of provider organizations: acute care facilities, ambulatory pr actices (primary and specialist practices), post- acute care facilities, home healthcare organization s, behavioral health facilities, and several major community-based organizations providing socia l services. The clinical data set spans a 
 much broader range of data and healthcare participa nts than any single organization or EHR would be able to provide. A high-performing regional HIE like HSX provides a strong base of active organizations sharing and leveraging data that is the basis for all healt h data access initiatives – for patients, providers and health plans alike. d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other en tities facilitating data exchange and broader frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor h ealth information networks, TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)? HIEs such as HSX support several essential data-exc hange use cases, connecting providers and health plans at all levels of care. Clinical data exchange is one of several critical use cases. In addition, HSX supports data exchange for patient pa nels, including panel-based encounter notifications and results notifications, which are essential for providers to provide direct and timely interventions in value based care settings (ACO’s, MA-practices, health plan care coordination teams). HSX also has direct connection s with healthcare providers and their preferred community-based organizations / social se rvices providers to support health related social needs, lowering healthcare costs and improvi ng health outcomes. Many HSX clinical and care-coordination users lever age this proactive encounter data in real- time to reduce hospital re-admissions EDs, the high est encounter cost. HSX is ready to support and align TEFCA/QHIN for na tionwide data queries. In addition, we recognize that healthcare is local and our current active use cases go well beyond the proposed national vendor health networks and EFCA / QHIN exc hanges. Payers - PA PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifyin g clinical quality data responsibilities of providers? a. How interested are payers and providers in EHR tech nology advances that enable bulk extraction of clinical quality data from EHRs to payers to allow them to do the calculations instead of the provider - side technology? Both payers and providers are interested in simplif ying data sharing, and the HIEs are well positioned to provide this capability. Many HIEs ha ve become certified under NCQA’s Data Aggregator Validation (DAV) Program, and payers are receiving bulk clinical data today through this mechanism. Both CCD and FHIR based transfer me chanisms are supported. This works well at getting data to payers that fall outside the sco pe of typical claims formats, e.g., vital signs, la b results, and screening results. This also saves si gnificant time with both payers and providers gathering this data from desperate patient records. HIEs such as HSX can be the payer’s data 
 aggregator for this quality data which reduces work load and overall costs for both payers and providers in gathering quality data needs. b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality r eporting responsibilities of providers to both CMS and other payers be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed? Are there technologies payers might leverage that would support access to real time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical care in addition to simplifying rep orting processes? HSX achieved NCQA Data Aggregator Validation (DAV) certification for real time access to quality data to inform clinical care and simplify q uality reporting processes. Providers - PR PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provide r access to health information? Some but not all HSX member organizations using the EPIC EHR are in the process of switching to the EPIC Nexus QHIN, which would run side by sid e with their Care Everywhere data exchange network. Outside of systems activating the Epic Nexus QHIN, HSX is not aware of health systems or practices in the Philadelphia are a that are prioritizing the need to join the TEFCA/QHIN exchange. a. Please provide specific examples. Unable to answer at this time, because no participa ting HSX members are currently live on any of the QHINs. In the near future, we will have more inform ation on how member provider organizations combine clinical data exchange from a QHIN together with other data exchange services from HSX or their regional HIE. We believe both exchanges are e ssessential and needed and should function in a collaborative model. b. What changes would you suggest? c. What other options are available outside of TEFC A? HIEs such as HSX support the use cases that are env isioned by TEFCA, plus offer additional use cases which are currently not supported by TEFCA/QH INs. Use cases supported by both HSX and TEFCA:  clinical data exchange, via CCD queries, from regio nal and national provider organizations.  access to national providers via eHealth Exchange. Use cases supported by HSX but not TEFCA:  Encounter Notification, based on patient panel or p opulation (most HSX members rank Encounter Notification as the top HSX use case for their organization, in particular ACOs and 
 practices in at-risk value-based care contracts. Th is use case is not supported by TEFCA/QHINs. It provides significant value to the members.  panel-based results real-time notification delivery  Data exchange with community-based social services organizations via the PA-Navigate program.  Clinical research programs spanning across member o rganizations, using the aggregated data set as a one-stop shop for clinical data and tracki ng patients’ clinical trajectories. (research is based on patient consent, or de-identified data, wi th strict provisions for patient data privacy and consent). In other words, even if TEFCA would provide clinica l data exchange nationally, HSX would still be essential to many of its members through use cas es beyond CCD-based clinical queries. d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or chan nels or both that could be consolidated? There is redundancy in functionality between region al HIE’s such as HSX, and TEFCA/QHIN data exchange. Both networks support clinical data queri es yet serve different needs. HSX is currently connected to eHealth Exchange (eHX), whic h would be the likely avenue for HSX to connect into the TEFCA/QHIN network. There are addi tional use cases currently provided by HIEs such as HSX which are not yet part of the TEFC A/QHIN capabilities: encounter notification, patient-panel-based real-time push notifications an d results notifications, connections to community-based organizations, and more. HIEs need to be sub participants of QHINs, to provi de connectivity to ambulatory practices, post-acute facilities, home care organizations, and other care givers in a variety of organizations. A careful collaboration between bot h HIEs and the TEFCA/QHINS model is essential and the right formula for improved overal l data exchange. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks - TD TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does T EFCA perform? TEFCA through a series of connected QHINs provides one consistent national clinical data query capability , via C-CDA document queries. TEFCA als o provides a record locator service, indicating to the requestor at which organizations there may be data for a patient. What TEFCA does not provide are proactive data push es in the form of encounter notifications, a real time push of encounter health data that both providers and payers find very valuable in lowering costs, improving the patient experience an d improving health outcomes. This is what HIEs such as HSX provide to member organizations. A carefully structured collaboration between TEFCA and HIEs would meet all needs for pro viders and payers. 
 a. What existing alternatives should be considered? HIEs should be considered as the local and regional data sharing entity that delivers not only clinical data exchange between clinical providers a nd payers, but also: - Additional essential data exchange use cases: enco unter notification, panel-based information sharing for Value-Based Care organizations and heal th plan care coordination teams. - Additional participating partners in data sharing, which would not usually be included in the TEFCA/QHIN network: ACOs, home care providers, comm unity-based social services organizations. b. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channel s or both that should be consolidated? See our response to PR6-d. TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperab ility and exchange and what are its limitations? a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need? Yes – USCDI gives a very comprehensive set of healt h data. In our experience, most healthcare provider organizations are not (yet) sharing the fu ll USCDI data set. We see two challenges: some EHRs do not (yet) support the inclusion of all USCDI data in their C-CDA documents. And second, not all healthcare provider organizations h ave enabled or activated the inclusion of the full USCDI data in the data they share. b. If not, is it because of limitations in the defi nition of the USCDI format or the way it is utilize d? USCDI in its current and upcoming versions does not include images and data that’s not numeric or text based. We see a future need to als o provide access to these data types that are currently not included in C-CDA documents, using ot her data transport formats. HSX has a data quality workgroup where we bring tog ether member organizations, identify their data needs, and look to improve data capture and sharing to meet the community needs. c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping challenges? How could such challenges be addressed? HSX believes that the current USCDI data set covers the majority of health data exchange needs. Image- and other modality exchange can be la yered on top of the USCDI-based exchange once it is more firmly established and bro adly implemented. d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but less structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more processing by the receiver? 
 Structured, fielded, and properly coded data is sti ll preferred for most of the standardized clinical entities in the USCDI such as diagnoses, m edications, and lab results. However, data transport mechanisms currently in use can also hand le free text of clinical notes, narrative discharge summaries, and radiology reports, etc. We would advocate for both/and, not either/or. TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CM S or ASTP/ONC or both have in ensuring viability of healthcare data sharing networks, incl uding enough supply and demand, that results in usage and outcomes? The initial HSX implementation, enrollment and conn ection of participating practices was partially funded by grants. Current HIE operations come primarily from annual participating member fees. For long-term viability, CMS and/or AS TP/ONC should consider financial support for clinical data exchange, through Medicare, Medic aid and/or separate funding. CMS funding would support on-going operational expenses as a co mplement to participant payments, and would help HIEs extend their local on-ground connec tivity, and keep software and services reliable and up-to-date. Value-Based Care Organizations. VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MS SP) to leverage digital health management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with their patients? What are the current obstacles preventing broader d igital product adoption for patients in ACOs? HSX membership includes several ACOs, ACO-Reach pra ctices, and at-risk VBC primary care practices. ACOs and their Care Coordination teams are some of the most frequent and consistent users of HSX data and services – in part icular clinical data and encounter notification for at-risk patient panels. For high-functioning AC Os, HIEs are critical infrastructure for managing a panel of patients, coordinating care, an d reducing acute care utilization. HIEs also assist in connecting patients to community-based or ganizations, assisting patients with health- related social services and closing the referral lo op – for example in Pennsylvania through the PA-Navigate program, where HSX is leading this impl ementation. Once this connection is made, HSX closes the referral loop to ensure the pr ovider and payer know this patient has been enrolled in a community-based service (for example, food delivery and condition-specific dietary and nutrition support). Current obstacles preventing broader use by patient s in ACOs would be fragmentation of the healthcare system causing patients to have to use m ultiple tools to manage clinical care and health related social services. HIEs such as HSX fu nction as a data aggregator and single point of 
 contact for all a patient’s data, not only for heal thcare providers, but also as a gateway into social services, such as benefits coordination, foo d and nutrition, and other services not typically provided by the healthcare organization. VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements? a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care p lanning, patient event notification, data extraction/normalization, quality performance measu rement, access to claims data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device interoperabi lity, or other patient empowerment tools. b. What other health IT capabilities have proven va luable to succeeding in value-based care arrangements? HSX and other regional HIEs provide essential healt h IT capabilities and tools for managing a panel of patients enrolled in an ACO or other at-ri sk plan. This includes panel-based encounter notification, results notification, clinical data a ccess, and connecting patients with community organizations. HIEs provide the ability to update p anels frequently. HIEs maintain a Master Patient Index for combining data from multiple prov iders. HIEs assist in data-exchange at transitions of care – from acute care to post-acute care to home care – which can be the critical points of failure, resulting in lowering healthcare costs and improving patient experience and health outcomes. VB-9. What technology requirements should be differ ent for APM organizations when comparing to non-APM organizations (for example, qu ality reporting, and interoperability)? Patient care for non-APM organizations (FFS organiz ations) is typically focused on single-patient data requirements. APMs require technology for man aging patient panels, and for tracking clinical and related data for these patient panels: encounters, device data, results, social services. APMs brings an additional set of cross-pa tient data exchange requirements. APM- based management and tracking of patient panels inc ludes the ability to define and update patient panels, and to track patients across multip le providers. VB-12. What technology standardization would preser ve program-specific flexibility while promoting innovation in APM technology implementati on? HSX and other HIEs would benefit from further stand ardization of data exchange between community-based organizations providing non-clinica l but healthcare related services to patients, to allow for better coordination of care across healthcare providers and community organizations. Healthcare specific APIs, primarily used by EHRs, don’t work for CBOs who often use simpler technology and Customer Relationship Ma nagement (CRM) tools that are not healthcare specific. We would like to see focus on API standards that are not solely aimed at EHR vendors, since community organizations use othe r management software. 