 Health Technology Ecosystem Presented by NORC 55 East Monroe Street, 30th Floor Chicago, IL 60603 (312) 759 -4000 Main (312) 759 -4004 Fax Point s of Contact Eric Young , MA Associate Director of External Affairs Strategic Communications & External Affairs (703) 217 -6814 Young -Eric@norc.org Prashila Dullabh, MD Vice President Health Sciences (301) 634 -9418 Dullabh -Prashila@norc.org Presented to Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244 -1850 HealthTechRFI@cms.hhs.gov 
Health Technology Ecosystem i Table of Contents Introduction ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................... 1 Patients and Caregivers ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 2 Patient Needs ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............ 2 PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take? ................................ . 2 a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones' health that can be enabled by digital health products? ................................ ................................ ........................... 4 b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future. ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 5 PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today? ......................... 6 a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet? ................... 6 b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer? ............................ 7 Data Access and Integration ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................... 8 PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................... 8 a. What data is valuable but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, price s)? ................................ ................... 8 b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest value, and why? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............. 9 c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability, and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence? ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 9 Providers ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................... 10 Digital Health Apps ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ 11 PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC -5) digital health products for their patients? .................... 11 a. What are the current obstacles? ................................ ................................ ................................ . 12 b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products in the provision of their care? ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................... 12 c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a digital product by a patient? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............... 13 Conclusion ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .................. 14 
Health Technology Ecosystem 1 Introduction NORC at the University of Chicago (NORC) is pleased to respond to the Request for Information (RFI) from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP/ONC ). We welcome the opportunity to provide our perspective on digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries , as well as the state of data interoperability and the broader health technology ecosystem . Established in 1941, NORC is one of the largest and most respected nonpartisan, nonprofit research organizations in the United States and remains at the forefront of conducting rigorous research for the public ’s interest. NORC has a longstanding history of support ing federal initiative s focused on improving accessibility and quality of health information . In the last two decades , our work has expanded to include a growing emphasis on digital health , particularly in efforts to improve digital health products available to patients, including Medicare beneficiaries, to support informed decision -making , better health outcomes , increased healthcare efficienc y, and reduced costs . NORC’s work has also focused on expand ing access to timely a nd accurate health data for all stakeholders —including clinicians, researchers, and policymakers —to facilitate improved patient care and population health outcomes . NORC has collaborated extensively with provider organizations, patient advocacy organizations, electronic health record (EHR) developers , and health informatics organizations to conduct research that aims to drive better digital health products and advance the digital health ecosystem for care teams, patients, and caregivers.1 2 3 4 5Additionally, NORC has partnered with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) offices6 7 and other federal agencies on these priorities , including CMS and ASTP /ONC . NORC has also worked with the Patient -Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) to advance the science of engaging patients in research8 regarding their needs and preferences and expand stakeholder access to health data. As part of these initiatives, NORC’s work has included: • Designing and developing digital technologies to better engage patients in their care . • Enhancing the data infrastructure needed to conduct meaningful patient -centered outcomes research , deliver evidence -based patient -centered care , and improve healthcare efficienc y. • Engaging directly with patients to explore preferences and concerns around collecting and using patient -contributed data in healthcare and research settings. NORC maintains a commitment to prioritiz ing patients’ perspectives and experiences throughout this work . To that end, NORC actively engages patients to better understand their perspectives, preferences, and experiences, ensuring that the design, development, and implementation of digital health tools in healthcare are truly patient -centered and grounded in the realities of those most impacted by these technologies . The following responses reflect NORC’s insights on digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries, data interoperability, and the broader health technology infrastructure, informed by our research in collaboration with a diverse range of stakeholders , including patients and caregivers, healthcare providers, health systems, informaticians, and app developers . NORC recognizes the importance of increasing beneficiary access to digital health tools , which is essential for empowering beneficiaries in their o wn care decisions and for enhancing the quality and scope of health research through improved data availability and system interoperability . Furthermore, digital health products can reduce waste in 
Health Technology Ecosystem 2 healthcare costs for the government by improving efficiency, supporting preventive car e, and facilitating chronic disease management.9 10 11 Patients and Caregivers Providing patients with the right information at the right time and in the right format and channel can help empower them to make evidence -informed decisions about their health care , which can lead to better outcomes .12 Health management applications can make it easier for patients to submit and access their health information , allowing them to feel empowered in discussions with clinicians about which care options will be best for them. For example, clinical decision support tools can collect and analyze patient - reported blood pressure data to support patients and their care teams in making the best decisions for an individual’s hypertension management based on their circumstances and preferences.13 Patients have also shown a n increased desire to access their health information through personal health record apps . For example, 57 percent of patients reported accessing at least some of their medical data via the patient portal in 2022, representing a nearly 50 percent increase since 2020.14 When patients can make decisions that align with their preferences, needs, values, and specific circumstances, it can lead to improved health outcomes, increased satisfaction, and greater active engagement in their healthcare journey.15 The rapid advancement of digital health products and supportive policies towards a more patient -centered healthcare delivery model create s a ripe environment for advancing the accessibility and quality of health information for patients.16 For one, there is an increased availability of patient -specific information that can inform digital health products , including patient -reported outcomes (PROs) data17 18 and patient preference data.5 Additionally, there has been a proliferation of digital health products , including health management applications , personal health records apps, and wearable devices , that allow patients to be more engaged in their healthcare by providing them with real-time medical data as well as information on their goals and values related to health and wellness.19 20 Advancements in healthcare interoperability , as well as recent requirements for developers to enable patient access to their medical data, make it easier for patients to access and use information to manage their health conditions in partnership with their clinicians.21 Finally, rapid developments in artificial intelligence (AI)22 technologies , such as conversation al agents that can facilitate communication between patients and clinicians ,23 create opportunities to analyze vast amounts of data to support more personalized care. Patient Needs PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take? Through NORC’s engagement with patients and patient advocates in qualitative interviews, roundtable discussions, and focus groups regarding health management apps for patients , we have gained valuable insights into what patients expect and need from digital health products . These discussions have provided a nuanced understanding of how patients interact with health technologies and what features make these tools useful and trustworthy. Several themes have emerged about what is most important to patients in health management and care navigation apps . • Apps That Support Health Tracking and Care Navigation . Patients find value in apps that enable them to have an active role in managing their health.24 Patients increasingly use apps that support self-management by allowing them to track symptoms, medications, appointments, and progress 
Health Technology Ecosystem 3 toward health goals. Patients also use these apps to share health information , such as patient -reported outcomes , with their clinicians.25 Patient -facing apps that leverage AI algorithms may help patients detect patterns and trends in their symptoms and health data points , which gives them even more information about adjusting their lifestyle to manage their health. These apps are particularly useful for patients managing multiple chronic conditions as they can help coordinate care across multiple clinical settings and data tracking related to their conditions. • Apps That Provide Easy, Organized Access to Personal Health Information. Patients have emphasized the importance of apps that facilitate timely access to their health information, including test results, medication lists, and care plans. This access enables them to make informed decisions with their providers.4 Patients have also indicated the importance of apps presenting this information in an accessible manner that is intuitive and clear.26 For many patients, especially those managing multiple conditions, quick and consistent access to their health information can be critical for coordinating care. 27 • Apps That Facilitate Communication with Clinicians and Care Teams . According to patients, a major value of health apps is their ability to bridge communication gaps between patients and their clinicians .28 NORC’s research with p atients has emphasized that they appreciate apps that allow them to send messages to their clinicians, receive updates or test results, and ask follow -up questions between appointments.29 Many patients have also shared that they support features that enable real - time health data sharing —such as outcomes from remote monitoring devices or patient -reported outcomes (PROs) —to enable clinical decision -making . There is growing interest in using conversational agents or chatbots within these apps to make interactions with care teams more seamless and responsive.30 • Apps That Give Patients Control Over Their Health Data and Access . NORC’s qualitative research with p atients indicates that they want to control how their health information is used, and who has access to it .4 They desire digital health products that allow them to upload or input their data—such as symptoms, blood pressure readings, or mood diaries —and to share that data with their clinical team or researchers as they see fit.29 Equally important is the ability to grant access to this data to caregivers, family members, or other trusted individuals.31 This is especially relevant for older adults, people with disabilities, or patients managing complex care who may rely on support from others to organize or interpret their health information . Patients have also noted important design considerations of health apps that can significantly impact their usability and effectiveness. Apps should be :25 32 • Easy to use with intuitive interfaces, requiring minimal steps to complete tasks; navigation of the apps should accommodate varying levels of digital literacy. • Understandable with content presented in plain language. • Accessible with features that include people with visual, auditory, cognitive, or other impairments and compatible with assistive technologies. • Respectful of preferences, including preferences for notifications and display features. • Transparent data use and use of AI in digital health products with clear information about how patient data is collected, used, stored, and shared. • Protective of privacy by providing assurances that sensitive health information is secure , and that consent is sought before secondary uses of patient data. These insights reinforce the importance of designing health management apps that align with patients' values, needs, and real -world experiences . 
Health Technology Ecosystem 4 a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones' health that can be enabled by digital health products? In our qualitative research, patients and patient advocates identified several key actions they would like to be able to take for their own or their loved ones’ health —actions they believe can be supported by digital health products. These include sharing patient preferences , which speak to how they want to engage with their care with clinicians , coordinat ing care across multiple providers and settings , manag ing chronic conditions , support ing medication adherence , and supporting caregivers in care navigation .26 31 33 • Enable Patients to S hare Preferences . NORC’s qualitative research has demonstrated that p atients want to easily share their preferences and priorities with clinicians , which can be enabled by digital health products . This includes indicating goals of care, preferred communication styles, values related to treatment decisions, and advanced care planning choices. This functionality is especially important for those navigating serious or chronic illnesses, where patient preferences, values , and quality -of-life considerations may strongly influence treatment options.31 • Coordinate Care. Patients often manage care across multiple clinicians and care settings, which can lead to fragmented communication.34 In our discussions with p atients , they have expressed a strong interest in digital health products that help bridge these gaps by centralizing key health information, sharing visit summaries across care teams, enabling remote monitoring, and providing visibility into care plans or upcoming appointments.33 Digital health products that include care coordination features can help patients avoid duplicate testing, ensure consistent messaging across providers, and reduce the burden of relaying the same information multiple times.35 • Support with Chronic Disease Management . Research indicates that p atients living with conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, asthma, or arthritis want to be able to better manage their conditions daily .36 Digital health products can support chronic disease management through monitoring symptoms, logging daily activities, visualizing trends in health data, and receiving real -time guidance based on their inputs. These features not only promote better self -management but also facilitate more informed and productive conversations with healthcare providers.37 • Support with Medication Adherence . Research indicates that despite motivation, patients face barriers with medication adherence.38 Patients have expressed interest in digital health products that can provide timely reminders, track medication schedules, offer education on drug interactions or side effects, and flag issues that warrant follow -up with a clinician.39 • Enable Caregivers to Navigate Care Decisions. Caregivers have an important role in managing their loved one’s health. Research indicates that caregivers want to access timely health information to participate in care decisions alongside their loved ones and their care teams.40 41Digital health products can support this by enabling shared access to care plans, medication lists, clinical notes, and appointment schedules. Products that offer educational resources, communication channels with providers, and decision aids can further empower caregivers to make informed decisions and advocate on behalf of their loved ones. 42 43 This is especially important for patients with limited capacity to manage their care due to age, disability, or illness. These functions within digital health products can empower patients and their caregivers to make evidence -informed decisions about their healthcare , leading to better healthcare outcomes12 and reducing inefficiencies in healthcare delivery .11 
Health Technology Ecosystem 5 b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future. Through qualitative interviews with patients, NORC’s research has identified a range of needs that could be supported by a digital health product functioning as a personal assistant (i.e., software solutions potentially supported by AI). Th is include s support with tasks that make managing health easier, more efficient, and more personalized. Patients and caregivers also shared that they value solutions that can help them make informed decisions and navigate care complexities. Below , we emphasize these tasks and how they could be facilitated by future software solutions such as generative AI . • Generate Plain Language Summaries. Research demonstrates that patients appr eciate plain language summaries of clinical documents such as lab results, imaging reports, or clinician notes.44 Generative AI can serve as a personal health assistant, translating medical jargon into plain language , thus empowering patients to understand their health status and care plans .45 • Supplement Patient Portal Communication. NORC’s report on patient preferences emphasizes that patients want to communicate seamlessly with their providers between clinical visits as needed .31 AI- powered chatbots can provide timely, conversational responses and escalate more complex queries to clinicians when needed.46 • Provid e Tailored Health Recommendation s. Generative AI can conduct conversational assessments, such as nutrition coaching , where it can probe for and identify patients’ preferences, dietary habits, barriers, and resource constraints to provide personalized nutrition plans and meal suggestions. Over time , it can provide recommendations based on feedback and outcomes, mimicking the role of an empathetic, context -aware health coach .47 • Monitor Health Conditions . Generative AI can monitor health conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease from smart inhaler s and environmental sensors to collect real - time data on medication usage and environmental factors, including air quality. The AI can generate plain language insights and generate recommendations or alerts for patients and clinicians .48 • Manag e Disease s. Generative AI can integrate data from various sources to manage diseases such as diabetes. It can analyze continuous glucose monitoring data, dietary habits, and physical activity to generate actionable alerts for users.48 • Support Medication Adherence . Generative AI can track medication intake via smart pill bottles or visual confirmation (e.g., smartphone camera) to remind patients, flag missed doses , and adjust communication strategies based on adherence patter ns.49 Agentic AI is an emerging type of AI that acts autonomously, with minimal human supervision, to pursue specific goals, make decisions , and take action on behalf of users .50 In healthcare, a gentic AI can be utilized to fulfill the role of a personal health assistant, supporting patients' health need s regarding care coordination, treatment adherence, and making informed decisions . Examples of agentic AI that may be useful for assisting patients include personalized health monitoring (e.g., integrating data from wearable devices and providing real -time feedback and alerts) , dynamic treatment planning (e.g., analyz ing patient data to suggest adjustments in treatment plans) , proactive disease management (e.g., identifying early signs of disease exacerbation and recommending prevent ive measures or interventions) , and enhanced patient engagement (e.g., facilitating communication between patients and clinicians, and simulating empathetic and context -aware back -and-forth communication with providers).51 While there are promising areas for AI use in healthcare, specifically as it pertains to supporting patients with their healthcare needs, there are important potential risks associated with the continued and further adoption of AI systems . These potential risks include ethical concerns , 52 hallucinations (or 
Health Technology Ecosystem 6 confabulations) and other technical issues ,53 54 liability of AI algorithms,55 workforce considerations ,56 transparency ,57 bias,58 59 and patient safety.60 Furthermore, there may be issues with trust in AI among patients as they have reported mixed views on its use in their healthcare. While m any patients believe that AI has the potential to strengthen healthcare delivery , 61 there is a need to balance the opportunities of AI use in healthcare with the need to manage risks and maintain trust. PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today? Through roundtables and qualitative interviews with patients and other stakeholders , literature reviews, and pilot testing of tools, NORC’s research has identified gaps in current health management applications that limit patient involvement in care planning. These gaps center on the following themes: • Ability to Submit Patient Preferences . Collecting data on patient preferences can ensure that care is aligned with patient needs and values.62 NORC’s research found that data within some types of patient preference domains were more regularly collected and ready for standardization and use in health management applications compared to others. For example, there are standards and codes available to capture preferences for personal characteristics (i.e., preferred name, language ), healthcare services (i.e., treatment, advance care directives) , and engagement (i.e., receipt of information, inclusion of others in decision making ), but limited standards to capture preferences related to care experience and how patients want to access their data.63 Additionally , health management applications should allow patients to update their preferences , as patients ’ needs and preferences can change over time. Functionality within patient apps that facilitates dynamic collection of patient preference data is needed to ensure fluidity of preferences over time. • Enhanced Communication. Patients and other stakeholders have agreed on the potential for health management applications, particularly those that leverage AI, to streamline patient -clinician communication . While some patients may prioritize face -to-face interactions with their provider, others may be comfortable substituting asynchronous communication through an app for interactions.61 Even with app -mediated asynchronous communication, p atients desire a more natural , flexible form of communication that simulates a back -and-forth conversation.64 Findings from NORC’s research indicate an opportunity for AI -supported health management apps, particularly chatbots powered by generative AI , to fill this gap. Given the volume of back -and-forth messaging between patients and providers, Generative AI -powered health management applications can be used to communicate with patients to clarify their needs and symptoms between visits, enabling more efficient communication with providers during visits .32 However, appropriate guardrails must be put in place when using this type of technology to protect patient privacy , ensure safety via clinician involvement , as assuage liability concerns from the clinician side .65 • Feedback Loops. Patients submit large amounts of data through health management applications , including symptom information, biometric information, information about goals, and medication tracking information .29 The results from pilot testing of an AI -enabled health management application found that patients desire feedback loops with their clinicians; they want to know when the information they submit through the app has been received by a clinician so that it can be used in future decision -making or rece ive a response from their clinician about a data point they submitted .26 However, these feedback loops are largely missing from apps. a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet? NORC’s research has reviewed the current landscape of digital health app interoperability and identified the following gaps in the field: 
Health Technology Ecosystem 7 • Apps that can Communicate across Health Systems. To fully realize the potential of patient -facing health management applications , they must be interoperable wit hin and across the health IT systems that care teams use, particularly EHRs. A lack of interoperability within apps causes a burden to patients, as it can contribute to incomplete medical records , which necessitate manual conveying of information to clinicians.66 One of the leading standards that can support health management application interoperability is Health Level Seven (HL7®) Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR®) , which allows different systems to efficiently exchange healthcare data in a consistent format .67 However, despite the increasing adoption of EHR and app developers, FHIR standards and resources are not being used ubiquitously – fewer than a quarter of healthcare organizations report adopting FHIR application programming interfaces (APIs ) at scale.68 Additionally , the sharing and use of patient app data across care settings is impeded by insufficient data standards (development and adoption) and differences in semantics used across tools and systems.69 Greater coordination is needed across health management application developers and EHR developers to ensure interoperability between apps and EHRs and allow patient data collected by apps to be integrated into clinician workflows across the broader health IT ecosystem. • Apps that Address Multiple Conditions. Findings from the research have shown that health management applications are increasingly being developed for specific populations or specific uses, such as hypertension, diabetes, mental health conditions, or medication adherence.70 71 A current gap in the app marketplace is apps that address multiple conditions at once using a shared interface . The limited availability of multiple condition apps leads to additional burden s for patients who have to routinely use numerous apps to address their conditions .72 Apps that address multimorbidity would be especially important for the more than 25 percent of the US population with multiple chronic conditions and whose complex care needs are addressed across multiple providers and care settings.73 Work is currently being done to develop and test shared electronic care planning apps to enable more effective communication and coordination about a patient’s treatment plan, goals, and preferences across care settings .74 However, these tools are not the norm due to challenges with the availability and functionality of FHIR -based interoperability systems across care settings , as discussed above. b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer? Through digital health products, CMS can leverage its quality measurement and reporting initiatives to promote more efficient tracking and assessment of patient health outcomes , including PROs . The CMS Measures Management System (MMS)75 is a standardized source of quality measures that can support the development of relevant, patient -centered measures for digital health products across the Measure Lifecycle (from specification to measure use), which is currently a gap in the field.13 The CMS Meaningful Measures 2.0 can also guide digital health products in collecting and analyzing only the most impactful data, making them more user -friendly for patients and caregivers.76 CMS is uniquely positioned to improve the integration of patient preferences into health management applications, which are central to patient -centered care. Despite an increased focus on delivering patient - centered care that empowers patients to participate in care decision -making , few health management applications consider patient preferences when offering clinical recommendations and guidance to support shared decision -making .77 CMS can support the standardization of these preferences to facilitate their integration into apps. For example, by requesting new terms that represent patient preferences from existing data standards organizations, such as Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC )78 and Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (SNOMED ),79 or raising awareness for the inclusion of additional patient preference codes in future versions of the United States Core Data for Interoperability (U SCDI). USCDI V4 includes patient preferences related to preferred method and language of communication, advance directives, care experience preferences, and goals and health concerns, but there is limited adoption of LOINC codes capturing preferences related to treatment 
Health Technology Ecosystem 8 intervention and care experience.80 Ultimately, health management applications will be more impactful and meaningful to patients when they account for patient needs and preferences. CMS is also well-positioned to help identify high -priority clinical areas , aligned with broader HHS goals, where health management applications would be most effective at improving the quality of care . CMS operates the Quality Improve ment Organization (QIO) Program81 and other quality improvement initiatives that focus on the nation’s most pressing health topics , such as chronic disease management, behavioral health care coordination , and long -term services and supports.82 Using evidence from these programs, CMS can provide guidance on areas where digital health will have the greatest impact. Data Access and Integration PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? In NORC’s research with patients they have consistently emphasized the importance of sharing their personal preferences, priorities, and values with their care teams. While other forms of data are readily available through patient portals and EHRs , such as demographic or clinical data, patients are interested in ensuring their preferences are readily available and acted upon in their care plans.3 Specifically, patients have expressed that their preferences pertaining to the nature of their engagement (e.g., the degree to which a patient wants to be engaged in healthcare decisions, how they want others engaged, mode of engagement), access to information (e.g., what information they would like to access) , communication (e.g., preferred mode and frequency of communication) , caregiving (e.g., caregiving needs and how /what information is shared with caregivers) , and treatment (e.g., palliative care, aggressive treatment preferences, and advance directives) are hi gh priority data they would like their clinicians to know and to be shared across healthcare teams.31 a. What data is valuable but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)? Claims Data . An important data source that is valuable but difficult to access is c laims data , including Medicare, Medicaid, and commercial claims data. These data are valuable in that they provide a longitudinal view of a patient’s healthcare utilization across various settings83 (e.g., outpatient, inpatient, pharmacy), offering insight into treatment patterns, chronic conditions, and trends through diagnostic and procedure codes. If delivered in a usable way, these data can be valuable to patients , caregivers , and other stakeholders to detect gaps in care (e.g., inconsistent medication fills) to tailor care coordination and management accordingly. The challenges with claims data include limited access to patients and caregivers for their own use, restricted access to developers or vendors due to privacy regulations, and the fact that claims data is retrospective, which limits its usefulness for real -time applications . CMS’s Blue Button 2.0 initiative laid the initial groundwork for enabling API-based patient access to Medicare claims data, but it is not widely used.84 Clinical Notes . Clinical notes are another important data element that captures context, nuance, and patient -provider discussions not found in structured fields. These data can provide insights into patient preferences, social needs that impact health outcomes, and other contexts that can enable a more holistic, patient -centered approach to healthcare and care planning. Clinical notes are often not shared with patients or shared inconsistently across systems . Additionally, unstructured text makes it challen ging for technical vendors to extract actionable information.85 OpenNotes adoption by EHR systems has promoted patient access to clinical notes.86 
Health Technology Ecosystem 9 Pricing/Cost Information . Additionally, pricing information is valuable to patients and caregivers as it further enables them to make informed decisions regarding their healthcare .87 Patients want to know expected out -of-pocket costs for their healthcare and medications , but pricing data is often missing or inconsistent. Additionally, app developers may struggle to access real -time or personalized cost estimates due to the complexity of payer systems . b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest value, and why? In addition to claims and clinical data, p atient -contributed data , such as p atient preferences , PROs , and nonclinical contextual data , are among the most valuable yet underutilized sources of information for improving healthcare and facilitating patient empowerment . The use of patient preference data helps ensure care aligns with patients’ preferences, which can lead to more active participation in their care, higher satisfaction, and treatment adherence .88 PROs , often collected through apps or web -based surveys, are information from the patient regarding their health status, symptoms, care experience , outcomes, and more without clinician judgment or interpretation. PROs can provide insight from the patient that complements clinical information and helps tailor treatment plans, ultimately improving patient satisfaction.89 Nonclinical c ontextual information collected directly from patients or obtained from other data systems , such as social services systems, provides additional valuable insight regarding patients’ social needs and barriers. Research demonstrates that nonclinical factors , such as social and environmental factors , account for up to 80 percent of health outcomes .90 Without the context of these factors, providers may miss key drivers of a patient’s clinical condition or factors that may impact their a bility to comply with treatment plans. Integrating these nonclinical data enables more personalized care for patients and allows clinicians and care teams to tailor treatment and address barriers to care (such as transportation or food insecurity) . Typically, this nonclinical information is collected from patients through questionnaires during clinical visits or through patient portals or entered into structure fields or clinical notes in the EHR.91 c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability , and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence? Multiple challenges and opportunities exist regarding data accessibility, interoperability, and integration from different sources. In addition to enabling more meaningful clinical research and actionable evidence, opportunities to enhance clinical data accessibility, interoperability, and integration challenges can also reduce unnecessary healthcare inefficiencies and spending.92 93 Based on NORC’s research, we highlight several in the table below .29 65 94 Challenges Opportunities Variability in EHR Systems and Standards EHR systems vary widely in how they capture, store, and structure data. This heterogeneity complicates efforts to enhance accessibility, interoperability, and integration of clinical data from different sources . Advance Interoperability Standards Standards such as HL7 FHIR (Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources®) and USCDI (United States Core Data for Interoperability) offer a foundation for consistent data exchange. App developers can use these standards to help harmonize data formats and improve interoperability across systems. Limited Application Programming Interface s (APIs) Use Patient -Facing APIs 
Health Technology Ecosystem 10 Challenges Opportunities There are limited robust APIs within health systems that allow third -party app developers to access and exchange data securely. App developers can d evelop FHIR -based patient - facing APIs that enable patients’ secure communication with their care team. Varying Levels of Standards Maturity and Adoption The adoption and implementation of standards such as HL7 FHIR and SNOMED CT are uneven across health systems. While some organizations have embraced these standards, others rely on legacy or proprietary formats, creating gaps in data interoperability. Federal Initiatives Federal i nitiatives like the 21st Century Cures Act drive regulatory and technical frameworks to promote data sharing and patient access. Variability in Data Type Data from various sources —such as EHRs, wearable devices, and lab systems —often differ in format, structure, and terminology , making it challenging to integrate them in a way that supports meaningful analysis and decision - making . Use AI to Support Data Harmonization and Standardization Developers can use AI to standardize formats, map terminologies, and harmonize disparate sources using machine learning and natural language processing. Variability in Data Quality Missing values, inconsistent entries, and measurement errors can compromise the reliability of integrated health data, making it more difficult to draw accurate insights or support clinical decisions from multiple data sources. Use AI to Support Data Imputation and Quality Improvement Developers can use AI to detect missing or inconsistent data and use statistical modeling (such as data imputation) to fill gaps or flag anomalies. Providers Patient -focused digital health products can supply providers with the information and evidence needed to enhance shared decision -making and ultimately improve patient outcomes. Tools such as patient portals and telehealth platforms can enhance communication between providers , patients, and caregivers , which can influence patient self -management and patient -centered outcomes.95 Clinical decision support tools integrated with in EHRs can also streamline workflows and reduce administrative burden for clinicians by automating tasks such as test result not ifications. Remote monitoring devices and mobile health apps can facilitate access to real -time information outside of clinic settings, which allows providers to make timely adjustments to care plans between patient visits96 and can reduce healthcare costs. 97 Recent advancements have promoted the adoption and effective use of digital health products by provider s and healthcare system s. Federal initiatives such as the 21st Century Cures Act and its associated ONC’s Cures Act Final rule support the seamless and secure access of health information through EHRs , improving access and availability of health data and encouraging interoperability between healthcare systems .98 Interoperability standards such as FHIR APIs enable this seamless exchange , making it easier for clinicians to access patient data within EHRs and their regular workflows.99 Finally, AI has been increasingly incorporated into healthcare settings and has the potential to accelerate opportunities for patient -centered care and efficiencies in care delivery .100 With these advancements, there is an increasing 
Health Technology Ecosystem 11 need to ensure modern digital health products are designed safely and with clinician and patient needs in mind . Digital Health Apps PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC -5) digital health products for their patients? CMS and its partners can consider conducting assessments and /or systematically collecting information that could be used to demonstrate the value of digital health products for clinicians . In particular, these assessments can focus on demonstrating how digital health products reduce burden or improve efficiency within clinical workflows. This is especially important for overburdened clinicians who could leverage digital health products to streamline care and free up more time to focus on patient interaction and safety.65 In addition, these types of assessments can unpack whether and how digital health tools impact patients’ access to health information and evidence -based care recommendations . This is valuable for clinicians serving patients in rural areas , where improved asynchronous communication would reduce patients’ need to travel long distances to receive healthcare. Limitations in broadband access, particularly in rural areas, have implications for the use of digital health products. Even though smartphone and computer use are nearly ubiquitous in the United States,101 some patients in low -income or rural areas do not use health management applications because they do not have regular internet access to their computer or smart phone.102 103 104 To address this challenge and support providers in facilitating access to care for patients, CMS and its partners can prioritize evaluation studies of text messaging -based health management applications. Text message -facilitated health management interven tions can provide patient support, deliver reminders or nudges, and collect data directly from patients in an efficient, low -cost manner.105 Text message notifications are associated with greater patient engagement and have the ability to reach more patients across a variety of clinical and socioeconomic contexts.106 CMS and its partners can conduct evaluations to ensure that text messaging -based interventions work on basic mobile phones to support access for populations who may not own a smartphone or have limited internet access. Health management applications have the potential to improve healthcare delivery by ensuring that patient -generated health data, patient -reported outcomes (PROs) data, and patient preferences data are adequately captured and communicated to clinicians. Through rapid cycle evaluations, CMS can contribute to demonstrating the value of health management applications and other digital health products in facilitating information processing, supporting bidirectional communication between patients and providers, a nd capturing important information outside of routine health visits . Rapid cycle randomized control trials (RCTs ) can be used to quickly identify which digital health tools work and do not work in order to quickly improve healthcare practice. Researchers have used these techniques to test and optimize digital health tools for scheduling reminders, prescription remind ers, vaccine alerts, and personalized messages, among others.107 CMS can consider funding these rapid -cycle RCT projects to act as accelerated quality improvement projects, wherein digital health products can be tested, fine -tuned, and adapted for real -world use based on end -user feedback. Findings from the RCTs can be used to illustrate to clinicians how digital health products will improve their workflows and meet the needs of their patients. 
Health Technology Ecosystem 12 a. What are the current obstacles? The introduction of digital health products into clinical care requires integrating data from disparate sources into the EHR and sustained patient engagement. If these solutions are not implemented correctly with the appropriate workflows, clinicians' cognitive burden could increase . EHR and app developers have faced significant challenges integrating patient -generated data from digital products into existing EHR database structures.108 These challenges include lack of agreement on the format in which data should be collected from apps (e.g., raw data versus summaries), where patient - generated data should be stored in the EHR, which standards should be used to encode the data , and reticence to integrate patient -generated data with clinician -collected data due to concerns about protecting EHR data integrity .109 Digital health products that rely on repeat physiologic measurements (e.g., for diabetes or high blood pressure management) or behavior tracking (e.g., medication adherence) require sustained patient engagement in submitting data. However , app developers and health systems face challenges keeping patients engaged with digital health products, as their use of these apps typically drops after a few months .108 Few studies have examined the factors that improve patient engagement .13 Still, potential reasons include the narrow focus of apps on specific conditions and the preference among patients to use their patient portal as a more comprehensive source of information rather than submitting and viewing data on a separate device or app .108 Digital health products, while an important source of additional patient -generated health data can potentially increase clinician burnout and fatigue by adding another source of information for clinicians to review. The siloed nature of digital health products, which are often disease -specific rather than targeting multiple conditions at once, can contribute to wo rkflow fragmentation and increased inefficiency for clinicians. Clinicians would now be responsible for reviewing patient -contributed data from ap ps, which can be viewed as extra work in the decision -making process.110 This can lead to increased cognitive burden on care teams and contribute to fatigue.111 Technology that addresses alert fatigue leverage s AI and clinical decision support system optimization to improve the relevance of alerts clinicians receive , reduc e alert volume , and enhanc e the user experience , making it easier for clinicians to navigate digital health products .112, 113 b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products in the provision of their care? Trust is fundamental to successfully using health management apps and other digital products. Source credibility – or the degree to which a message recipient perceives a message and/or its sender as credible114 – is critical to building trust and mediates the relationship between health communications and uptake of guidance.115 Findings from the research highlight strategies developers, clinicians, and other stakeholders can adopt to improve source credibility and digital products.116 These strategies include: • Communicating key information regarding the construction and creation of health management apps. Providing patients with information about the embedded guidelines, data, and algorithms used in health management apps as well as their intended uses and limitations increases transparency.117 • Tailoring messaging . Clinicians can inform patients whether a digital product’s delivery and format are tailored to end users’ needs and characteristics. Patients prefer tailored information and recommendations whenever possible.118 
Health Technology Ecosystem 13 • Creating feedback loops. Clinicians can communicate to patients the extent to which digital tools enable bidirectional exchange. The provision of feedback loops signals openness and receptivity by creating streamlined mechanisms for both patients and clinicians to share their feedback.119 • Promoting transparency. Providers should be transparent about why and how data being collected from patients through digital health tools are being used by clinicians.120 This explanation may make patients more willing to share information before and during healthcare visits. Additionally, patients interviewed in NORC’s research emphasized the need for transparency regarding the use of AI -enabled digital health products in their care. Patients identified several factors related to transparency that would influence their level of trust in AI -powered digital tools that should be considered: • Identifying when AI is used in care. Patients want to be informed when an AI tool is being used in their care, and they want these tools to be accessible, easy to understand, and friendly. Clinicians should explicitly inform patients when a digital product they are recommended leverages AI, and give patients the ability to opt out, if desired. • Understanding access to patient data. Patients emphasized that digital products should provide transparent information on data ownership, making it clear who can access the tool’s data and with whom it is shared. In order to build trust, digital products should provide adequate information how patients can access, update, or delete their data. • Receiving information on underlying data sources . Patients agree that they would trust AI -enabled digital products more if they knew it was providing accurate information. To the extent possible, explainable AI tools should be used, as they provide clear justifications for the recommendations they make.121 c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a digital product by a patient? The proliferation of digital health products has facilitated the collection of patient -generated data outside of healthcare visits. Additional supports are needed within healthcare systems to help clinicians manage the additional patient -generated data introduced by these tools. In order to promote the responsible use of digital health products by patients, new policies, procedures, and standards may be necessary to 1) ensure patient -generated data are appropriately reviewed and managed between visits , 2) f acilitate incorporation of patient -generated data into existing EHRs , and 3) troubleshoot potentially erroneous data from digital products .108 Additionally, new or revised reimbursement models may be necessary to support the collection, management, and use of patient -generated data from digital health products in clinical workflows. These reimbursement policies would be important to account for the additional receipt of data outside of typical clinic work hours, as healthcare organizations would otherwise be forced to internally fund these activities.108 Finally, providers can consider leveraging digital health formularies to streamline the process of recommending and tracking digital health products for patients. Digital health formularies are curated lists of digital health products, such as health management applications or care navigation applications that health organizations have selected and vetted for end user s.122 Digital health formularies make it easier for providers to recommend digital health products that are safe and effective, which is especially important given that patients are more likely to use apps that have been recommended by healthcare professionals .123 
Health Technology Ecosystem 14 Conclusion We appreciate the opportunity to respond to the RFI and to provide our perspective on the current state of digital health products and data interoperability. Increasing Medicare beneficiary access to digital health tools that meet their needs can empower them in their healthcare decisions , improve health outcomes, and reduce government healthcare costs by enhancing healthcare efficiency . We hope that our responses support CMS and ASTP /ONC in improving the health technology ecosystem in a patient -centered way . References 1 Desai PJ, Zott C, Gauthreaux N, Dobes A, Hongsermeier T, Cope E, Dungan R, Dullabh PM, and the CDSiC Trust and Patient -Centeredness Workgroup: An Introductory Handbook for Patient Engagement Throughout the Patient - Centered Clinical Decision Support Lifecycle. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 23 -0085. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; September 2023. 2 Lobach D, Heaney -Huls K, Ryan S, Chiao AB, Kawamoto K, Desai PJ, Segal C, Dullabh PM, CDSiC Implementation, Adoption, and Scaling Workgroup. Implementation, Adoption, and Scaling Workgroup: Exploring Challenges and Opportunities for Patient Engagement, Implementation, Adoption, and Scaling Through PC CDS Case Studies. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 24 -0069 -4. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2024. 3 Kuperman G, Nanji K, Cope EL, Dullabh PM, Desai PJ, Catlett M, Weinberg S, Hoyt S, and the CDSiC Outcomes and Objectives Workgroup. Outcomes and Objectives Workgroup: Taxonomy of Patient Preferences. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publica tion No. 23 -0038 -EF. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; May 2023. 4 Richesson RL, Dullabh PM, Leaphart D, Correa KH, Desai PJ, Gordon JR, Boxwala AA, and the CDSiC Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup. Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup: Advancing Standardized Representations for Patient Preferences to Support Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 23 -0074. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2023. 5 Ozkaynak M, Jiménez F, Kurtzman RT, Nwefo R, Kukhareva P, Desai PJ, Dullabh PM, and CDSiC Measurement and Outcomes Workgroup. Inventory of Patient Preference Measurement Tools for PC CDS Report. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 24 -0062 -1-EF. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; June 2024. 6 Dhopeshwarkar, R., Rotondo, C., Jiménez, F., Ryan, S., Karimi, M., Plourde, E., and Dullabh, P. Improving Data Infrastructure for Patient -Centered Outcomes Research for People with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. July 26, 2022 7 Dullabh P, Dhopeshwarkar R, Leaphart D, Peterson C, Gauthreaux N, Grigorescu V , Eloso J, Wei S. Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence (TAI) for Patient -Centered Outcomes Research (PCOR). Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. September 2023. 8 Building Capacity for Small Organizations Engagement Award Learning Network. NORC at the University of Chicago. https://www.norc.org/research/projects/building -capacity -small -organizations -engagement -award -learning - network.html . Accessed 29 May 2025. 9 Grouse CK, Waung MW, Holmgren AJ, et al. Behavioral "nudges" in the electronic health record to reduce waste and misuse: 3 interventions. J Am Med Inform Assoc . 2023;30(3):545 -550. doi:10.1093/jamia/ocac238 
Health Technology Ecosystem 15 10 Härkönen H, Lakoma S, Verho A, et al. Impact of digital services on healthcare and social welfare: An umbrella review. Int J Nurs Stud. 2024;152:104692. doi:10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2024.104692 11 Gentili A, Failla G, Melnyk A, et al. The cost -effectiveness of digital health interventions: A systematic review of the literature. Front Public Health . 2022;10:787135. Published 2022 Aug 11. doi:10.3389/fpubh.2022.787135 12 Marcial LH, Richardson JE, Lasater B, Middleton B, Osheroff JA, Kawamoto K, Ancker JS, van Leeuwen D, Lomotan EA, Al -Showk S, Blumenfeld BH. The Imperative for Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support. EGEMS (Wash DC). 2018 May 30;6(1):12. doi: 10.5334/ egems.259. 13 Dullabh P, Sandberg SF, Heaney -Huls K, Hovey LS, Lobach DF, Boxwala A, Desai PJ, Berliner E, Dymek C, Harrison MI, Swiger J, Sittig DF. Challenges and opportunities for advancing patient -centered clinical decision support: findings from a horizon scan. J A m Med Inform Assoc. 2022 Jun 14;29(7):1233 -1243. doi: 10.1093/jamia/ocac059. 14 Richwine C. Progress and Persistent Disparities in Patient Access to Electronic Health Information. JAMA Health Forum. 2023;4(11):e233883. doi:10.1001/jamahealthforum.2023.3883 15 Hickmann E, Richter P, Schlieter H. All together now - patient engagement, patient empowerment, and associated terms in personal healthcare. BMC Health Serv Res. 2022 Sep 2;22(1):1116. doi: 10.1186/s12913 -022-08501 -5. 16 Nundy S, Cooper LA, Mate KS. The Quintuple Aim for Health Care Improvement: A New Imperative to Advance Health Equity. JAMA. 2022;327(6):521 –522. doi:10.1001/jama.2021.25181 17 Perry LM, Morken V , Peipert JD, Yanez B, Garcia SF, Barnard C, Hirschhorn LR, Linder JA, Jordan N, Ackermann RT, Harris A, Kircher S, Mohindra N, Aggarwal V , Frazier R, Coughlin A, Bedjeti K, Weitzel M, Nelson EC, Elwyn G, Van Citters AD, O'Connor M, Cell a D. Patient -Reported Outcome Dashboards Within the Electronic Health Record to Support Shared Decision -making: Protocol for Co -design and Clinical Evaluation With Patients With Advanced Cancer and Chronic Kidney Disease. JMIR Res Protoc. 2022 Sep 21;11(9) :e38461. doi: 10.2196/38461. 18 Gandrup J, Ali SM, McBeth J, van der Veer SN, Dixon WG. Remote symptom monitoring integrated into electronic health records: A systematic review. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2020 Nov 1;27(11):1752 -1763. doi: 10.1093/jamia/ocaa177. 19 HL7 Patient Empowerment Workgroup. HL7 Informative Document: Patient Contributed Data, Release 1. September 2022. Accessed April 2, 2025. http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/public/ballots/2022SEP/downloads/HL7_PCD_R1_I1_2022SEP.pdf 20 Bradley SM. Use of Mobile Health and Patient -Generated Data -Making Health Care Better by Making Health Care Different. JAMA Netw Open. 2020 Apr 1;3(4):e202971. doi: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.2971. 21 Barker W, Johnson C. The ecosystem of apps and software integrated with certified health information technology. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2021 Oct 12;28(11):2379 -2384. doi: 10.1093/jamia/ocab171. 22 Lenharo M. An AI revolution is brewing in medicine. What will it look like? Nature. October 2023. Accessed April 2, 2025. https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586 -023-03302 -0. 23 Ayers JW, Poliak A, Dredze M, et al. Comparing Physician and Artificial Intelligence Chatbot Responses to Patient Questions Posted to a Public Social Media Forum. JAMA Intern Med. 2023;183(6):589 –596. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2023.1838 24 Desai PJ, Osheroff JA, Jiménez F, Heaney -Huls K, Ryan S, McCoy AB, Dullabh PM, CDSiC Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup. Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup: Approaches to Measuring Patient -Centered CDS Workflow a nd Lifeflow Impact. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 23 -0061. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; July 2023. 25 Madanian S, Nakarada -Kordic I, Reay S, Chetty T. Patients' perspectives on digital health tools. PEC Innov . 2023;2:100171. Published 2023 May 26. doi:10.1016/j.pecinn.2023.100171 26 Gauthreaux N, Zott C, Boxwala A, Dullabh PM. Quartz App to Support Medication Adherence: Usability and Feasibility Assessment. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2024. 
Health Technology Ecosystem 16 27 Dendere R, Slade C, Burton -Jones A, Sullivan C, Staib A, Janda M. Patient Portals Facilitating Engagement With Inpatient Electronic Medical Records: A Systematic Review. J Med Internet Res . 2019;21(4):e12779. Published 2019 Apr 11. doi:10.2196/12779 28 Palos -Sanchez PR, Saura JR, Rios Martin MÁ, Aguayo -Camacho M. Toward a Better Understanding of the Intention to Use mHealth Apps: Exploratory Study. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth . 2021;9(9):e27021. Published 2021 Sep 9. doi:10.2196/27021 29 Boxwala AA, Desai PJ, Gordon JR, Leaphart D, Correa K, Richesson RL, Dullabh PM, and the CDSiC Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup. Improving Interoperability of Patient Apps With the Health IT Ecosystem. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D0001 8. AHRQ Publication No. 23 -0071. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2023. 30 Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (US). Patient Access to Prescription Data. In: The Intersection of Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs and Health IT: Current Landscape and Future Considerations . Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US); 2021. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK602381/. Accessed May 29, 2025. 31 Leaphart D, Richesson RL, Correa KH, Ahmed A, Boxwala AA, Desai PJ, Dullabh PM, and the CDSiC Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup. Prioritizing Patient Preferences for Standardization to Support Patient - Centered Clinical Decision Support. Prepare d under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 24 - 0069 -5. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2024. 32 Zott C, Sittig DF, Gauthreaux N, Wright A, Russo E, Zahn L, Dullabh P. PAIGE Chatbot for Patient -Clinician Communication: Usability and Utility Assessment. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Qualit y; August 2024. 33 Dullabh P, Ancker J, Peterson C, Abdulhay L, Shah A, Dobes A, Desai P, and the CDSiC Trust and Patient - Centeredness Workgroup: Capturing Patient Preferences for Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support within Patient Lifeflows and Clinical Workflows. Pre pared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 24-0062 -5. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2024. 34 Kern LM, Bynum JPW, Pincus HA. Care Fragmentation, Care Continuity, and Care Coordination -How They Differ and Why It Matters. JAMA Intern Med . 2024;184(3):236 -237. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2023.7628 35 Baysari MT, Westbrook JI. Mobile Applications for Patient -centered Care Coordination: A Review of Human Factors Methods Applied to their Design, Development, and Evaluation. Yearb Med Inform . 2015;10(1):47 -54. doi:10.15265/IY -2015 -011 36 Grady PA, Gough LL. Self -management: a comprehensive approach to management of chronic conditions. Am J Public Health . 2014;104(8):e25 -e31. doi:10.2105/AJPH.2014.302041 37 Kelley MM, Powell T, Camara D, et al. Mobile Health Apps, Family Caregivers, and Care Planning: Scoping Review. J Med Internet Res . 2024;26:e46108. Published 2024 May 23. doi:10.2196/46108 38 Brown MT, Bussell JK. Medication adherence: WHO cares?. Mayo Clin Proc . 2011;86(4):304 -314. doi:10.4065/mcp.2010.0575 39 Pérez -Jover V , Sala -González M, Guilabert M, Mira JJ. Mobile Apps for Increasing Treatment Adherence: Systematic Review. J Med Internet Res . 2019;21(6):e12505. Published 2019 Jun 18. doi:10.2196/12505 40 Bucknall TK, Hutchinson AM, Botti M, et al. Engaging patients and families in communication across transitions of care: An integrative review. Patient Educ Couns . 2020;103(6):1104 -1117. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2020.01.017 41 Glajchen M, Goehring A, Johns H, Portenoy RK. Family Meetings in Palliative Care: Benefits and Barriers. Curr Treat Options Oncol . 2022;23(5):658 -667. doi:10.1007/s11864 -022-00957 -1 42 Petrovic M, Gaggioli A. Digital Mental Health Tools for Caregivers of Older Adults -A Scoping Review. Front Public Health . 2020;8:128. Published 2020 Apr 28. doi:10.3389/fpubh.2020.00128 43 Albulushi A, Al Kindi DI, Moawwad N, et al. Digital health technologies in enhancing patient and caregiver engagement in heart failure management: Opportunities and challenges. Int J Cardiol . 2024;408:132116. doi:10.1016/j.ijcard.2024.132116 
Health Technology Ecosystem 17 44 Bala S, Keniston A, Burden M. Patient Perception of Plain -Language Medical Notes Generated Using Artificial Intelligence Software: Pilot Mixed -Methods Study. JMIR Form Res . 2020;4(6):e16670. Published 2020 Jun 5. doi:10.2196/16670 45 Zaretsky J, Kim JM, Baskharoun S, et al. Generative Artificial Intelligence to Transform Inpatient Discharge Summaries to Patient -Friendly Language and Format. JAMA Netw Open . 2024;7(3):e240357. Published 2024 Mar 4. doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.0357 46 Tam W, Huynh T, Tang A, Luong S, Khatri Y , Zhou W. Nursing education in the age of artificial intelligence powered Chatbots (AI -Chatbots): Are we ready yet?. Nurse Educ Today . 2023;129:105917. doi:10.1016/j.nedt.2023.105917 47 Yang, Eric, et al. From Barriers to Tactics: A Behavioral Science -Informed Agentic Workflow for Personalized Nutrition Coaching . 2024, https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2410.14041. 48 Stein N. Artificial intelligence – AI. Lark Health. Published October 30, 2018. Accessed May 28, 2025. https://www.lark.com/resources/lark -health -ai-artificial -intelligence 49 Muoio, D. (2017, May 9). Pillsy launches smart pill bottle and app to improve medication adherence . MobiHealthNews. Retrieved from https://www.mobihealthnews.com/content/pillsy -launches -smart -pill-bottle -and- app-improve -medication -adherence 50 Boinodiris P, Parker J. The evolving ethics and governance landscape of agentic AI. IBM. Published March 21, 2025. Accessed May 28, 2025. https://www.ibm.com/think/insights/ethics -governance -agentic -ai 51 Karunanayake N. Next -generation agentic AI for transforming healthcare. Informatics and Health . 2025;2(2):73 – 83. doi:10.1016/j.ihj.2025.100014 52 Farhud DD, Zokaei S. Ethical Issues of Artificial Intelligence in Medicine and Healthcare. Iran J Public Health. 2021 Nov;50(11):i -v. doi: 10.18502/ijph.v50i11.7600. PMID: 35223619; PMCID: PMC8826344. 53 Google Cloud. What are AI Hallucinations? Accessed April 9, 2024. Access from: https://cloud.google.com/discover/what -are-ai- hallucinations#:~:text=AI%20hallucinations%20are%20incorrect%20or,used%20to%20train%20the%20model 54 Maayan GD. Data Drift vs. Concept Drift: What Is the Difference? Dataversity. Published February 3, 2023. https://www.dataversity.net/data -drift-vs-concept -drift-what -is-the-difference/ 55 Fox A, Augenstein J, Lloyd S, Curtis S, Reid M. Future of Health: The Emerging Landscape of Augmented Intelligence in Health Care . American Medical Association and Mannatt Health Strategies. https://www.ama - assn.org/system/files/future -health -augmented -intelligence -health -care.pdf 56 Hutson M. How AI is being used to accelerate clinical trials. Nature . Published online March 13, 2024. https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586 -024-00753 -x 57 Steerling E, Siira E, Nilsen P, Svedberg P, Nygren J. Implementing AI in healthcare -the relevance of trust: a scoping review. Front Health Serv. 2023 Aug 24;3:1211150. doi: 10.3389/frhs.2023.1211150. PMID: 37693234; PMCID: PMC10484529. 58 Akay EMZ, Hilbert A, Carlisle BG, Madai VI, Mutke MA, Frey D. Artificial Intelligence for Clinical Decision Support in Acute Ischemic Stroke: A Systematic Review. Stroke . 2023 Jun;54(6):1505 -1516. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.122.041442. Epub 2023 May 22. 59 Jeong HK, Park C, Henao R, Kheterpal M. Deep Learning in Dermatology: A Systematic Review of Current Approaches, Outcomes, and Limitations. JIV Innov. 2023; 3(1):100150. doi:10.1016/j.xjidi.2022. 60 Ahmed MI, Spooner B, Isherwood J, Lane M, Orrock E, Dennison A. A Systematic Review of the Barriers to the Implementation of Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare. Cureus . 2023;15(10):e46454. Published 2023 Oct 4. doi:10.7759/cureus.46454 61 Desai P, Dobes A, Shah A, Abdulhay L, Peterson C, Ancker J, Dullabh P, and the CDSiC Trust and Patient - Centeredness Workgroup. Patient and Caregiver Perspectives on Generative Artificial Intelligence in Patient - Centered Clinical Decision Support. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 24 - 0069 -2. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; May 2024. 62 Montori VM, Brito JP, Murad MH. The Optimal Practice of Evidence -Based Medicine: Incorporating Patient Preferences in Practice Guidelines. JAMA. 2013;310(23):2503 –2504. 
Health Technology Ecosystem 18 63 Richesson RL, Dullabh PM, Leaphart D, Correa KH, Desai PJ, Gordon JR, Boxwala AA, and the CDSiC Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup. Advancing Standardized Representations for Patient Preferences to Support Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Supp ort. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 23 -0074. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2023. 64 Wutz M, Hermes M, Winter V , Köberlein -Neu J. Factors Influencing the Acceptability, Acceptance, and Adoption of Conversational Agents in Health Care: Integrative Review. J Med Internet Res. 2023 Sep 26;25:e46548. doi: 10.2196/46548. 65 Kawamoto K, Ryan S, Heaney -Huls K, Chiao AB, Lobach D, Desai PJ, Dullabh PM, CDSiC Implementation, Adoption, and Scaling Workgroup. Implementation, Adoption, and Scaling Workgroup: Landscape Assessment on the Use of Artificial Intelligence to Scale PC CDS. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 24 -0069 -1. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; June 2024. 66 Li E, Lounsbury O, Clarke J, Ashrafian H, Darzi A, Neves AL. Patient and caregiver perceptions of electronic health records interoperability in the NHS and its impact on care quality: a focus group study. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2024 Dec 3;24(1):370. doi: 10.1 186/s12911 -024-02789 -5. 67 The Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology. Introduction to FHIR® Resources. Accessed April 15, 2023. https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/page/2021 - 04/Intro%20to%20FHIR%20Resources%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf 68 Editorial Staff. FHIR Interoperability Basics: 4 Things to Know. Health IT Analytics. February 23, 2022. Accessed May 27, 202 5. https://healthitanalytics.com/news/4 -basics -to-know -about -the-role-offhir -in- interoperability 69 Dinh -Le C, Chuang R, Chokshi S, Mann D. Wearable health technology and electronic health record integration: Scoping review and future directions. JMIR Mhealth and Uhealth. 2019;7(9):e12861. doi: 10.2196/12861 70 IQVIA. Digital Health Trends 2021: Innovation, Evidence, Regulation, and Adoption. July 2021. Accessed May 27, 202 5. https://www.iqvia.com/ -/media/iqvia/pdfs/institute -reports/digital -health -trends2021/iqvia -institute -digital - health -trends -2021.pdf?_=1628089218603 71 Griffin AC, He L, Sunjaya AP, et al. Clinical, technical, and implementation characteristics of realworld health applications using FHIR. JAMIA Open. 2022;5(4):ooac077. https://doi.org/10.1093/jamiaopen/ooac077 72 Phi NTT, Montori VM, Kunneman M, Ravaud P, Tran VT. Cumulative Burden of Digital Health Technologies for Patients With Multimorbidity: A Systematic Review. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Apr 1;8(4):e257288. doi: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.7288. 73 Boersma P, Black LI, Ward BW. Prevalence of Multiple Chronic Conditions Among US Adults, 2018. Prev Chronic Dis 2020;17:200130. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5888/pcd17.200130 74 Implementation of an Electronic Care Plan for People With Chronic Conditions. Prepared under Contract No. 75P00120F37004. AHRQ Publication No. 23 -0010. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; November 2022. 75 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Welcome to the Measures Management System Hub. Accessed May 29, 2025. https://mmshub.cms.gov/ 76 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Meaningful Measures 2.0: Moving to Measure Prioritization and Modernization. Updated April 23, 2025. Accessed May 29, 2025. https://www.cms.gov/medicare/quality/cms - national -quality -strategy/meaningful -measures -20-moving -measure -reduction -modernization 77 Rajput VK, Dowie J, Kaltoft MK. Are Clinical Decision Support Systems Compatible with Patient -Centred Care?. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2020;270:532 -536. doi:10.3233/SHTI200217 78 LOINC from Regenstrief. Submissions. Accessed May 28, 2025. Retrieved from: https://loinc.org/submissions/ 79 SNOMED International. Change or add to SNOMED CT Accessed May 28, 2025. Retrieved from: https://www.snomed.org/change -or-add 80 Office of the National Coordinator for Health Technology. Goals. Accessed May 28, 2025 . Retrieved from: https://www.healthit.gov/isa/uscdi -data-class/goals#draft -uscdi -v4 81 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services . Quality Improvement Organizations. Modified on September 10, 2024. Accessed May 29, 2025. https://www.cms.gov/medicare/quality/quality -improvement -organizations 
Health Technology Ecosystem 19 82 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Quality in Motion: Acting on the CMS National Quality Strategy. April 2024. https://www.cms.gov/files/document/quality -motion -cms-national -quality -strategy.pdf 83 Markser A, Blaschke K, Meyer I, et al. Claims data analysis of the health care utilization for patients with coronary heart disease and mental comorbidity. J Psychosom Res . 2023;172:111430. doi:10.1016/j.jpsychores.2023.111430 84 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Blue Button 2.0 API. https://api.bluebutton.cms.gov /. Accessed May 29, 2025. 85 Miller K, Moon S, Fu S, Liu H. Contextual Variation of Clinical Notes induced by EHR Migration. AMIA Annu Symp Proc . 2024;2023:1155 -1164. Published 2024 Jan 11. 86 OpenNotes. OpenNotes. https://www.opennotes.org /. Accessed May 29, 2025. 87 Rao P, Fischer SH, Vaiana ME, Taylor EA. Barriers to Price and Quality Transparency in Health Care Markets. Rand Health Q . 2022;9(3):1. Published 2022 Jun 30. 88 Marzban S, Najafi M, Agolli A, Ashrafi E. Impact of Patient Engagement on Healthcare Quality: A Scoping Review. J Patient Exp . 2022;9:23743735221125439. Published 2022 Sep 16. doi:10.1177/23743735221125439 89 Burki TK. The importance of patient -reported outcomes and measures. Lancet Respir Med . 2021;9(11):1218 - 1220. doi:10.1016/S2213 -2600(21)00436 -7 90 Institute for Clinical Systems Improvement. Going beyond clinical walls: solving complex problems. 2014. 91 Shah A, Dobes A, Abdulhay L, Desai P, Ancker J, Peterson C, Dullabh P, and the CDSiC Trust and Patient - Centeredness Workgroup: Action Plan to Collect and Use Social Determinants of Health Data in PC CDS. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Pub lication No. 24 -0069 -7-EF. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; September 2024. 92 Menachemi N, Rahurkar S, Harle CA, Vest JR. The benefits of health information exchange: an updated systematic review. J Am Med Inform Assoc . 2018;25(9):1259 -1265. doi:10.1093/jamia/ocy035 93 Cho NE. The Impact of Health Information Sharing on Hospital Costs. Healthcare (Basel) . 2021;9(7):806. Published 2021 Jun 26. doi:10.3390/healthcare9070806 94 Dullabh PM, Desai PJ, Gordon JR, Leaphart D, Wilson KS, Richesson RL, Boxwala AA, and the CDSiC Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup. Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup: Environmental Scan. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AH RQ Publication No. 23 -0029. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; January 2023. 95 Brands MR, Gouw SC, Beestrum M, Cronin RM, Fijnvandraat K, Badawy SM. Patient -Centered Digital Health Records and Their Effects on Health Outcomes: Systematic Review. J Med Internet Res . 2022;24(12):e43086. Published 2022 Dec 22. doi:10.2196/43086 96 Crossley GH , Boyle A, Vitense H., et al. The CONNECT (Clinical Evaluation of Remote Notification to Reduce Time to Clinical Decision) Trial: The Value of Wireless Remote Monitoring With Automatic Clinician Alerts . JACC. 2011; 57(10):1181 -1189. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacc.2010.12.012 97 Vudathaneni VKP, Lanke RB, Mudaliyar MC, Movva KV , Mounika Kalluri L, Boyapati R. The Impact of Telemedicine and Remote Patient Monitoring on Healthcare Delivery: A Comprehensive Evaluation. Cureus . 2024;16(3):e55534. Published 2024 Mar 4. doi:10.7759/cureus.55534 98 Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy. ONC Cures Act Final Rule. Updated March 26, 2024. Accessed May 29, 2025. https://www.healthit.gov/topic/oncs -cures -act-final-rule 99 Braunstein ML. Health informatics on FHIR: How HL7's new API is transforming healthcare . Cham, Switzerland: Springer International Publishing, 2018. 100 Giansanti D. The Future of Healthcare Is Digital: Unlocking the Potential of Mobile Health and E -Health Solutions. Healthcare (Basel) . 2025;13(7):802. Published 2025 Apr 3. doi:10.3390/healthcare13070802 101 Mejía, Daniela, “Computer and Internet Use in the United States: 2021,” ACS -56, American Community Survey Reports, U.S. Census Bureau, Washington, DC, 2024. 
Health Technology Ecosystem 20 102 Swenson K, Ghertner R. People in Low -Income Households Have Less Access to Internet Services. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation. April 2020. https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/private/pdf/263601/Internet_Access_Among_Low_Income.pdf 103 Cannon J. Health care’s role in rural economic development: How broadband can improve health outcomes. National Rural Health Association Policy Brief, Accessed May 30, 2025. https://www.ruralhealth.us/getmedia/37253b20 -f865-4a84 -bed5 -bded40f5c2c8/NRHA -Policy -Brief -Final -Draft - Healthcare -s-Role -in-Rural -Economic -Development -%28Broadband%29 -%283%29.pdf 104 Batai K, Sanderson PR, Joshweseoma L, et al. Formative Assessment to Improve Cancer Screenings in American Indian Men: Native Patient Navigator and mHealth Texting. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022;19(11). doi:10.3390/ijerph19116546 105 Suffoletto B. Deceptively Simple yet Profoundly Impactful: Text Messaging Interventions to Support Health. J Med Internet Res . 2024;26:e58726. Published 2024 Aug 27. doi:10.2196/58726 106 Bidargaddi N, Almirall D, Murphy S, et al. To Prompt or Not to Prompt? A Microrandomized Trial of Time - Varying Push Notifications to Increase Proximal Engagement With a Mobile Health App. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth . 2018;6(11):e10123. Published 2018 Nov 29. doi:10.2196/10123 107 NYU Langone Health. Rapid Randomized Controlled Trial Lab. Accessed May 29, 2025. https://med.nyu.edu/centers -programs/healthcare -innovation -delivery -science/delivery -system -redesign/rapid - randomized -controlled -trial-lab 108 Sittig DF, Boxwala A, Wright A, Zott C, Gauthreaux NA, Swiger J, Lomotan EA, Dullabh P. Patient -centered clinical decision support challenges and opportunities identified from workflow execution models. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2024 Aug 1;31(8):1682 -1692. do i: 10.1093/jamia/ocae138. 109 Dullabh P, Hovey L, Heaney -Huls K, Rajendran N, Wright A, Sittig DF. Application Programming Interfaces in Health Care: Findings from a Current -State Sociotechnical Assessment. Appl Clin Inform. 2020 Jan;11(1):59 -69. doi: 10.1055/s -0039 -1701001. 110 Lee TC, Shah NU, Haack A, Baxter SL. Clinical implementation of predictive models embedded within electronic health record systems: a systematic review. Informatics (MDPI). 2020;7(3). doi: 10.3390/informatics7030025. 111 Wilbanks BA, McMullan SP. A review of measuring the cognitive workload of electronic health records. Comput Inform Nurs. 2018;36(12):579 -588. doi:10.1097/CIN.0000000000000469 112 Baron JM, Huang R, McEvoy D, Dighe AS. Use of machine learning to predict clinical decision support compliance, reduce alert burden, and evaluate duplicate laboratory test ordering alerts. JAMIA Open . 2021;4(1):ooab006. Published 2021 Mar 1. doi:10.1093/jamiaopen/ooab006 113 Fallon A, Haralambides K, Mazzillo J, Gleber C. Addressing Alert Fatigue by Replacing a Burdensome Interruptive Alert with Passive Clinical Decision Support. Appl Clin Inform . 2024;15(1):101 -110. doi:10.1055/a - 2226 -8144 114 Sui Y , Zhang B. Determinants of the Perceived Credibility of Rebuttals Concerning Health Misinformation. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021;18(3):1345. Published 2021 Feb 2. doi:10.3390/ijerph18031345 115 Schmidt AM, Ranney LM, Pepper JK, Goldstein AO. Source Credibility in Tobacco Control Messaging. Tob Regul Sci. 2016;2(1):31 -37. doi:10.18001/TRS.2.1.3 116 Hongsermeier T, Dobes A, Cope E, Dullabh PM, Desai PJ, Dungan R, Catlett M, Weinberg S, and the Trust and Patient -Centeredness Workgroup: Improving the Source Credibility of PatientCentered Clinical Decision Support Tools. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80 120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 23 -0056. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; July 2023. 117 Sutton RT, Pincock D, Baumgart DC, Sadowski DC, Fedorak RN, Kroeker KI. An overview of clinical decision support systems: benefits, risks, and strategies for success. NPJ Digit Med. 2020;3:17. Published 2020 Feb 6. doi:10.1038/s41746 -020-0221 -y 118 Caverly TJ, Skurla SE, Robinson CH, Zikmund -Fisher BJ, Hayward RA. The Need for Brevity During Shared Decision Making (SDM) for Cancer Screening: Veterans' Perspectives on an "Everyday SDM" Compromise. MDM Policy Pract. 2021;6(2):23814683211055120. Publish ed 2021 Oct 26. doi:10.1177/23814683211055120 
Health Technology Ecosystem 21 119 Aaron S, McEvoy DS, Ray S, Hickman TT, Wright A. Cranky comments: detecting clinical decision support malfunctions through free -text override reasons. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2019 ;26(1):37 -43. doi:10.1093/jamia/ocy139 120 Esmaeilzadeh P. The Impacts of the Perceived Transparency of Privacy Policies and Trust in Providers for Building Trust in Health Information Exchange: Empirical Study. JMIR Med Inform. 2019 Nov 26;7(4):e14050. doi: 10.2196/14050. 121 Anjara SG, Janik A, Dunford -Stenger A, Mc Kenzie K, Collazo -Lorduy A, Torrente M, Costabello L, Provencio M. Examining explainable clinical decision support systems with think aloud protocols. PLoS One. 2023 Sep 14;18(9):e0291443. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0291443. 122 Goth G. PBM ‘Digital Formularies’ Pro mote Healthier Habits with Vetted Apps. Society for Human Resource Management. October 12, 2020. Accessed May 29, 2025. https://www.shrm.org/topics -tools/news/benefits - compensation/pbm -digital -formularies -promote -healthier -habits -vetted -apps 123 Jezrawi R, Balakumar S, Masud R, Gabizon I, Bhagirath V , Varughese J, Brown M, Trottier D, Schwalm JD, McGillion M, Alvarez E, Lokker C. Patient and physician perspectives on the use and outcome measures of mHealth apps: Exploratory survey and focus group study. Digit Health. 2022 May 24;8:20552076221102773. doi: 10.1177/20552076221102773. 