June 13th, 2025
Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Department of Health and Human Services
RE: [CMS-0042-NC] RIN 0938-AV68, Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Administrator Oz,
Jefferson Health has been serving Pennsylvania and New Jersey communities as an academic
safety net provider since 1825. Our 32 hospital locations provide care for more than 8.8 million
hospital and outpatient visits each year. Jefferson Health Plans provides health insurance
access for Medicare, Medicaid, and ACA beneficiaries.
Jefferson is committed to creating unparalleled value and reimaging health and education for
our community. In that commitment, Jefferson is accountable for nearly 750,000 lives in value-
based arrangements and an additional 350,000 lives in Jefferson Health plans. We share CMS’s
goal to improve the digital ecosystem by providing more high-quality value-based patient care
models. Jefferson thanks CMS for the opportunity to respond to the value-based section of
this RFI.
1. Digital Health Adoption
VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations (ACOs)
or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital health
management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with their
patients? What are the current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption for
patients in ACOs?
Care management activities are best provided in collaboration with patients’ care teams and
primary care. We recommend that care navigation products be embedded within the electronic
medical record that the patient’s primary care team is also using to document their care. This
prevents inefficiencies arising from care managers documenting across multiple systems and
the patient’s care team not being able to see the full picture.
Care Management software, risk stratification and other tools are an additional significant
expense to ACOs. A financial incentive or credit tied to adoption would help organizations be
able to afford an investment in this technology. This can be especially important for new
providers who do not have a history of shared savings payouts to justify the expense.

Programs like remote patient monitoring (RPM) that leverage technology to monitor patients in
their home often suffer from low patient engagement due to patient cost sharing
requirements. CMS has a reimbursement mechanism through codes (99453, 99454, 99457,
99458,98980, 98981) for RPM services. However, Jefferson finds patients have a barrier to
engagement when cost sharing requirements are applied. Jefferson encourages CMS to reduce
this administrative burden and increase patient adoption.
Regarding digital products, there are several barriers potentially limiting patients’ adoption of
digital health tools. These barriers generally fall into two domains: 1) technical readiness -
which includes factors such as access to needed resources (devices and internet connectivity)
and knowledge in use of technologies / platforms (digital literacy) and 2) quality-of care
readiness – which includes factors such as patients’ trust in the quality of care that they can
receive via digital health and concerns about maintaining privacy of data with digital health
tools. (Rising KL, Guth A, Gentsch AT, Gonzalez KM, Hass R, Shughart L, Gelfer A, McVane M,
Worster B, Leader AE. Development and preliminary validation of the Digital Health Readiness
Screener. JAMA Network Open. 2024;7(9):e2432718)
Implementation of standard screening for patients’ digital health readiness in clinical practice
settings and ensuring availability of dedicated resources to address identified barriers (e.g.,
credits to pay for internet connectivity when needed, community health workers to help
address trust barriers) is likely to significantly increase patients’ adoption of digital health
products.
VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population health
analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement, and patient
engagement be better integrated into APM requirements?
Risk stratification, quality measurement, care coordination, and other core elements are
foundational to successful population management and success in value-based contracts. These
elements can often take years to fully implement and require additional funding. This often
becomes a glidepath for ACOs who need to spread investments over multiple years as
incremental success is achieved, and value-based payouts are realized.
We would recommend integration into APM requirements that match several levels of
maturity. Several of these areas, such as patient engagement, require manual report creation.
For these reasons, we would recommend an attestation process incorporated into APM
requirements for various maturity levels.
Jefferson continues to utilize and explore where Artificial Intelligence (AI) can make care more
efficient. AI can be leveraged well for patient flow or patient management. Patient flow, agentic
agents, asynchronous chat bots and symptom checkers can risk stratify and enhance triage to
the most efficient site of care; especially when combined with a telemedicine visit and good
care coordination. AI can be leveraged to schedule appointments, perform virtual check-in, and
Page 2

possible virtual discharge. It can replace self-check-in and ask more detailed questions in a
purposeful way.
VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event notification, data
extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement, access to claims data,
attribution and patient ID matching, remote device interoperability, or other patient
empowerment tools.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based
care arrangements?
We consider essential health IT capabilities for value-based contracts to be:
• Pagent Event Nogficagon or ADTs including skilled nursing faciliges.
• Data extracgon/normalizagon for claims, pharmacy, and clinical data. In addigon, the
ability to pull quality metric data on outcomes such as A1c value is also crigcal to success
with payers.
• Quality performance measurement including Electronic Medical Record (EMR) ability to
send electronic quality metrics. Run rate analygcs is especially important allowing
clinicians to understand the number of pagent care gaps they need to close to manage
performance at the populagon level.
• Access to gmely claims and pharmacy data. Pharmacy data, especially medicagon
history and dispensed data, funcgons best as a weekly feed to promote medicagon
adherence work and outreach in a gmely fashion.
• Pagent idengficagon logic and methodology allowing for pagent matching across
technology plajorms.
• Electronic outreach tools such as EMR communicagon and text messaging capabiliges.
• Risk stragficagon tools to predict risk of readmission, future uglizagon, and other factors
with health-related social needs incorporated.
• Customer relagonship management tools for outreach to the populagon to close care
gaps.
Page 3

VB-4. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value based
care arrangements?
• Clinicians in alternagve payment models need medical claims, pharmacy claims,
provider akribugon, benchmarks, and disease burden capture or risk adjustment data to
be successful in value-based care arrangements.
• Pharmacy medicagon history data provides medicagons dispensed, including drug
name, dosage, quangty, date filled, prescribing physician, and refill history.
• Akribugon data that disgnguishes between primary care vs specialist akribugon.
• Health related social needs data from screening and other public sources are important
to risk stragfy the populagon and provide the right care team members.
2. Compliance and Certification
VB-5. In your experience, how do current certification criteria and standards
incorporated into the ONC Health IT Certification Program support value-based care delivery?
The ONC Health IT Certification Program provides important support for value-based care
delivery. Standards such as: “Capability to provide clinical decision support”, “Capacity to
capture and query information relevant to health care quality”, “Capacity to exchange
electronic health information with, and integrate such information from other sources” are
critical to help clinicians at the point of care with the patient. Information from outside data
sources is especially critical for care managers who are organizing complex care for patients
who may have multiple providers, medications, and interactions with the health system.
VB-6. What specific health information technology capabilities that could benefit APMs
are not currently addressed by existing certification criteria and standards that should be
included under the ONC Health IT Certification Program?
The ONC Health IT Certification Program provides a solid base of criteria, but there are many
functions that would be useful as value-based care has evolved. Health systems continue to
need the flexibility to integrate 3rd party technology solutions into their EMR.
• Risk stragficagon models to analyze populagons and the ability to facilitate easier
documentagon for value-based FFS codes are two examples. Services, such as chronic
care management (99490, 99439, 99487,99489,99491, G0506) community health
integragon (G0019, G0511), and advanced care planning (99497, 99498) are important
for pagent outcomes but onen are not implemented due to technology challenges and
onerous documentagon standards.
Page 4

• Many EMRs do not have adequate risk stragficagon tools to help clinicians and care
managers idengfy pagents and get them to the right care programs. Risk stragficagon
models onen lack claims informagon as well as health related social needs variables to
improve accuracy.
• Integragon with Community Resource Directories.
• Data feedback mechanism indicagng a community-based organizagon accepted and
acted upon a referral.
• Longitudinal Care Planning with Shared Goal Seong - cergficagon for health IT that
supports dynamic, shared care plans involving the pagent, mulgple providers, and even
family caregivers, with clear goal seong and progress tracking.
• Pagent-Generated Health Data (PGHD) Integragon and Analysis
VB-7. How can technology requirements for APMs, established through CEHRT or other
pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility?
CMS can reduce complexity for IT and analytics teams by taking an API-first approach. Jefferson
encourages CMS to strongly emphasize standardized APIs (like FHIR) for data exchange. This will
allow us to innovate and scale more efficiently. Continued development and expansion of the
Minimum Viable Data Sets (like USCDI) will also reduce complexity.
Regulatory reporting leveraging solely EMR data via EcQMs is a complex and antiquated
solution. Allowing ACO’s to report using registry data which blends clinical and administrative
data or limiting reporting to the Medicare population would reduce administrative lift and
complexity.
VB-8. How can other HHS policies supplement CEHRT requirements to better optimize
the use of digital health products in APMs? As an example, requirements under the
Conditions of Participation for hospitals (42 CFR 482.24(d)) require hospitals to transmit
electronic patient event notifications to community providers. What barriers are in place
preventing APM participants from receiving the same notifications?
Many APM providers do receive ADT notifications from community providers today. This is
often delivered via health information exchanges. The “last mile” cost of participating in a
health information exchange can often be a barrier for some types of providers like skilled
nursing facilities and smaller primary care offices. Notifications need to be ingested into a
workflow where a care manager, clinician, or other team member can act on the alert.
Page 5

VB-9. What technology requirements should be different for APM organizations when
comparing to non-APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and interoperability)?
APM entities need to be able to ingest attribution rosters, share quality metric information, and
configure workflows in their electronic medical record (EMR) at a minimum. As financial
exposure increases to the provider/system, APMs must be able to benchmark their claims data
performance, support care management, social work and pharmacy workflows, and the ability
to measure more complex metrics such as medication adherence in a timely fashion.
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing
value-based care programs.
Jefferson participates in value-based contracts across multiple payers in all lines of business.
We often experience different claim file types and standards across these payers that all
require unique loads and maintenance to keep operational. Each EMR has a unique build and
workflow required for value-based operations. Lack of standardization requires additional
technology support and administration to work with independent physicians.
Many payers are utilizing “black box” risk adjustment methodology that cannot be replicated by
the organization, making it difficult to predict and measure performance and financial
outcomes in value-based contracts. Health information exchanges provide a vital source of
information to track populations, but many community providers do not participate in them,
making interoperability difficult.
Data flow and updates continue to be a challenge across providers and payers. Care managers
and other team members often find out that a patient’s primary care physician or contact
information has been changed. There is not an easy, interoperable way to update this with their
payer or other care team providers who may sit outside our EMR.
VB-12. What technology standardization would preserve program-specific flexibility while
promoting innovation in APM technology implementation?
• Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange (CDex)
• Digital Quality Measurement specificagon expansion and supporgng FHIR extensions
and profiles.
• Gravity Project expansion to include Comprehensive Health Related Social Needs
focusing on informagon on community resource referrals and their outcomes.
• Universally standardized FHIR extensions for the input features of advanced risk
assessment predicgve models.
Page 6

• VBC needs broader populagon-level reporgng standards on uglizagon, cost, and overall
financial performance at varying levels: NPI, Pracgce, Department, TIN, ACO, and
Contract.
• Care Coordinagon standards to track the full lifecycle of acgviges including referrals,
acceptance, complegon, and outcome, across different EMRs and Payer systems.
• Nagonal directory of FHIR endpoints.
VB-14. How could implementing digital identity credentials improve value-based care delivery
and outcomes?
Implementing a robust digital identity credentialing framework can significantly improve value-
based care by enhancing patient engagement and control over their health data. Patients will
be able to easily gather their health information from various payer and provider portals,
regardless of the vendor. This also empowers them with granular control over data sharing
through specific consent options and transparent audit trails, while simultaneously improving
patient matching across systems, which cuts down on medical errors and inefficiencies.
For providers, digital identity credentials will boost efficiency and collaboration. Clinicians will
benefit from secure Single Sign-On (SSO) access to multiple EMRs and applications, enabling
secure, context-aware access to patient data based on their role and needs. This streamlines
referrals and care transitions with verified patient and provider identities, fostering seamless,
multidisciplinary team-based care coordination.
Digitizing identities will also improve numerous administrative processes. It will eliminate the
need for costly roster management and de-duplication efforts, accelerate patient registration
and check-in, and reduce duplicative paperwork and unnecessary tests. Furthermore, it will
expedite provider credentialing and onboarding within VBC networks, leading to more efficient
operations.
Ultimately, these improvements will directly impact VBC outcomes. Better data access and care
coordination will improve performance on contracts and reduce overall healthcare costs by
minimizing administrative burden, preventing duplicative services, and reducing fraud. Patient
safety and engagement will be enhanced through accurate and timely access to health data,
and VBC models will benefit from more accurate risk adjustment. This foundational identity
layer will also accelerate innovation, paving the way for new VBC applications.
Page 7

VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access to
patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would be
necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its effectiveness?
A “digital yellow pages” is crucial for innovation by VBC organizations. This would allow for
faster development of our data integration, analytics, clinical decision support, disease burden
capture, and care coordination programs. It would also increase patient engagement and
experience. Currently, VBC organizations are beholden to their population health or EMR
vendors which monetize and gate access to this information. This would open opportunities for
new open-source solutions to develop in the marketplace.
Sincerely,
Baligh R. Yehia, MD, MPP, MSc
President, Jefferson Health
Baligh.Yehia@jefferson.edu
Page 8