[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 245 (Monday, December 29, 2025)]
[Proposed Rules]
[Pages 60970-61034]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]
[FR Doc No: 2025-23896]



[[Page 60969]]

Vol. 90

Monday,

No. 245

December 29, 2025

Part III





Department of Health and Human Services





-----------------------------------------------------------------------





Office of the Secretary





-----------------------------------------------------------------------





45 CFR Parts 170 and 171





Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: ASTP/ONC Deregulatory 
Actions To Unleash Prosperity; Proposed Rule

Federal Register / Vol. 90 , No. 245 / Monday, December 29, 2025 / 
Proposed Rules

[[Page 60970]]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

Office of the Secretary

45 CFR Parts 170 and 171

RIN 0955-AA09


Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: ASTP/ONC 
Deregulatory Actions To Unleash Prosperity

AGENCY: Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/Office of the 
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) 
(collectively, ASTP/ONC), Department of Health and Human Services 
(HHS).

ACTION: Proposed rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: This proposed rule focuses on deregulatory actions identified 
in HHS regulations regarding Health information technology standards, 
implementation specifications, and certification criteria and 
certification programs for health information technology, and 
information blocking. This proposed rule seeks to reduce burden, offer 
flexibility to both developers and providers, and support innovation 
through the removal and revisions of certain certification criteria and 
regulatory provisions. This proposed rule also seeks to address 
reported misuse and abuse of information blocking definitions and 
exceptions.

DATES: To be assured consideration, written or electronic comments must 
be received at one of the addresses provided below, no later than 5 
p.m. Eastern Time on February 27, 2026.

ADDRESSES: You may submit comments, identified by RIN 0955-AA09, by any 
of the following methods (please do not submit duplicate comments). 
Because of staff and resource limitations, we cannot accept comments by 
facsimile (FAX) transmission.
     Federal eRulemaking Portal: Follow the instructions for 
submitting comments. Attachments should be in Microsoft Word, Microsoft 
Excel, or Adobe PDF; however, we prefer Microsoft Word. http://www.regulations.gov.
     Regular, Express, or Overnight Mail: Department of Health 
and Human Services, Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of 
the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, Attention: 
Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: ASTP/ONC Deregulatory 
Actions to Unleash Prosperity Proposed Rule, Mary E. Switzer Building, 
Mail Stop: 7033A, 330 C Street SW, Washington, DC 20201. Please submit 
one original and two copies.
     Hand Delivery or Courier: Assistant Secretary for 
Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health 
Information Technology, Attention: Health Data, Technology, and 
Interoperability: ASTP/ONC Deregulatory Actions to Unleash Prosperity 
Proposed Rule, Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A, 330 C Street 
SW, Washington, DC 20201. Please submit one original and two copies. 
(Because access to the interior of the Mary E. Switzer Building is not 
readily available to persons without federal government identification, 
commenters are encouraged to leave their comments in the mail drop 
slots located in the main lobby of the building.)
    Inspection of Public Comments: All comments received before the 
close of the comment period will be available for public inspection, 
including any personally identifiable or confidential business 
information that is included in a comment. Please do not include 
anything in your comment submission that you do not wish to share with 
the general public. Such information includes, but is not limited to, 
the following: a person's social security number; date of birth; 
driver's license number; state identification number or foreign country 
equivalent; passport number; financial account number; credit or debit 
card number; any personal health information; or any business 
information that could be considered proprietary. We will post all 
comments that are received before the close of the comment period at 
http://www.regulations.gov.
    Docket: For access to the docket to read background documents, 
comments received, or the plain-language summary of the proposed rule 
of not more than 100 words in length required by the Providing 
Accountability Through Transparency Act of 2023, go to http://www.regulations.gov or the Department of Health and Human Services, 
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National 
Coordinator for Health Information Technology, Mary E. Switzer 
Building, Mail Stop: 7033A, 330 C Street SW, Washington, DC 20201 (call 
ahead to the contact listed below to arrange for inspection).

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Lipinski, Office of Policy, 
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National 
Coordinator for Health Information Technology, 202-690-7151.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Table of Contents

I. Executive Summary
    A. Purpose of Deregulatory Action
    1. Administration Deregulatory Priorities
    2. ASTP/ONC Implementation
    a. Certification Program and Information Blocking
    b. America's FHIR-Forward Future
    B. Summary of Major Provisions
    1. Health Information Technology Standards, Implementation 
Specifications, and Certification Criteria and Certification 
Programs for Health Information Technology (Part 170)
    a. Certification Criteria for Health Information Technology
    b. Standards and Implementation Specifications for Health 
Information Technology
    c. Terms and Definitions
    d. Conditions and Maintenance of Certification Requirements for 
Health IT Developers
    e. ONC Health IT Certification Program Administrative 
Requirements
    2. Information Blocking (Part 171)
    C. Severability
    D. Costs and Benefits
II. Background
    A. Statutory Basis
    1. Standards, Implementation Specifications, and Certification 
Criteria
    2. Health IT Certification Program
    B. Regulatory History
III. Health Information Technology Standards, Implementation 
Specifications, and Certification Criteria and Certification 
Programs for Health Information Technology (Part 170)
    A. Certification Criteria for Health Information Technology
    1. Clinical Certification Criteria
    a. Patient Demographics
    b. Clinical Decision Support
    c. Family Health History
    d. Implantable Device List
    2. Care Coordination Certification Criteria
    a. Transitions of Care
    b. Clinical Information Reconciliation and Incorporation
    c. Security Tags--Summary of Care
    d. Care Plan
    e. Decision Support Interventions
    3. Clinical Quality Measures Certification Criteria
    a. Clinical Quality Measures--Report
    b. Clinical Quality Measures--Filter
    4. Privacy and Security Certification Criteria
    5. Patient Engagement Certification Criteria
    a. View, Download, and Transmit to a 3rd Party
    b. Patient Health Information Capture
    6. Public Health Certification Criteria
    a. Transmission to Cancer Registries
    b. Transmission to Public Health Agencies--Electronic Case 
Reporting
    c. Transmission to Public Health Agencies--Antimicrobial Use and 
Resistance Reporting
    d. Transmission to Public Health Agencies--Health Care Surveys

[[Page 60971]]

    7. Design and Performance Certification Criteria
    a. Automated Numerator Recording
    b. Automated Measure Calculation
    c. Safety Enhanced Design
    d. Quality Management System
    e. Accessibility-centered Design
    f. Consolidated CDA Creation Performance
    g. Application Access--Patient Selection
    h. Application Access--All Data Request
    8. Transport Methods and Other Protocols Certification Criteria
    a. Direct Project
    b. Direct Project, Edge Protocol, and XDR/XDM
    B. Standards and Implementation Specifications for Health 
Information Technology
    1. United States Core Data for Interoperability Version 3.1 
Update (USCDI v3.1)
    a. National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act
    b. ``Reasonably Available'' to Interested Parties
    2. Standards and Implementation Specifications
    C. Terms and Definitions
    1. Base EHR
    2. Common Clinical Data Set
    3. Global Unique Device Identification Database and Production 
Identifier
    D. Conditions and Maintenance of Certification Requirements for 
Health IT Developers
    1. Assurances
    2. Application Programming Interfaces
    3. Real World Testing
    4. Attestations
    5. Insights
    E. ONC Health IT Certification Program Administrative 
Requirements
    1. Principles of Proper Conduct for ONC-ACBs
    2. Health IT Module Certification
    3. Certification to Newer Versions of Certain Standards
    4. Effect of Revocation on the Certifications Issued to Health 
IT Module(s)
IV. Information Blocking (Part 171)
    A. ``Access'' and ``Use'' Definitions
    B. Infeasibility Exception Revisions
    1. Third Party Seeking Modification Use Condition
    2. Manner Exception Exhausted Condition
    C. Manner Exception
    D. Removal of Subpart D Exception and Other Provisions Specific 
to TEFCA
V. Incorporation by Reference
VI. Response to Comments
VII. Collection of Information Requirements
    A. ONC-ACBs
    B. Health IT Developers
VIII. Regulatory Impact Analysis
    A. Statement of Need
    B. Overall Impact
    1. Regulatory Planning and Review Analysis
    a. Costs and Benefits
    b. Accounting Statement and Table
    C. Regulatory Flexibility Act
    D. Executive Order 13132--Federalism
    E. Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995

I. Executive Summary

A. Purpose of Deregulatory Action

1. Administration Deregulatory Priorities
    On January 31, 2025, President Trump issued Executive Order (E.O.) 
14192 ``Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation,'' \1\ which states 
that it is the policy of the Administration to significantly reduce the 
private expenditures required to comply with Federal regulations to 
secure America's economic prosperity and national security and the 
highest possible quality of life for each citizen. ASTP/ONC is issuing 
this proposed rule in an effort to streamline and reduce administrative 
burdens on health care providers, health information technology (IT) 
developers, and the health IT community overall. This proposed rule 
would also improve patient and health care provider access to 
electronic health information (EHI) and promote health IT and health 
care market competition with proposals to revise the information 
blocking regulations.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025-02345/unleashing-prosperity-through-deregulation.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In order to implement the President's deregulatory initiatives, and 
to better promote the health and well-being of the American people, HHS 
intends to dramatically expand its deregulatory efforts. An important 
component of Making America Healthy Again is making sure that health 
care providers and caretakers can focus on preventing and treating 
chronic diseases. By proposing to remove duplicative and unnecessary 
requirements of the ONC Health IT Certification Program (Certification 
Program), we will support providers in caring for their patients. 
Developers of certified health IT will have more time to support 
providers' specific technological needs. Providers may also have more 
health IT choices to meet their needs through increased competition in 
the certified health IT market that may come from reduced barriers to 
entry for the certification of health IT. Further, proposed revisions 
to the information blocking regulations would support health care 
providers in using innovative third-party software with their EHRs as 
well as their access, exchange, and use of patients' EHI.
2. ASTP/ONC Implementation
a. Certification Program and Information Blocking
    Since the inception of the Certification Program, ASTP/ONC has 
aimed to implement and administer the Certification Program in the 
least burdensome manner that supports an administration's policy goals. 
Throughout the years, we have worked to improve the Certification 
Program with a focus on ways to reduce burden, offer flexibility to 
both developers and providers, and support innovation. Over the past 15 
years, we have established a set of regulatory requirements that have 
provided a foundation for our voluntary Certification Program. As we 
look to the future, there is an opportunity to review the existing 
requirements and make updates as needed. Through both formal notice and 
comment rulemaking and informal engagements, we have received 
suggestions on how to update the Certification Program to meet current 
market needs. This proposed rule proposes deregulatory actions that: 
take into consideration these suggestions; account for the current and 
future state of technology; reduce burden by eliminating redundant 
requirements; and promote innovation for health IT developers, 
providers, and other interested parties. We have also evaluated the 
information blocking regulations and propose the removal of one 
exception, removal and revisions of conditions of other exceptions, and 
revisions of definitions to better promote EHI access, exchange, and 
use. Together, these efforts directly align with Administration goals 
as outlined in E.O. 14192 (Unleashing Prosperity through Deregulation) 
\2\ and E.O. 14267 (Reducing Anti-Competitive Regulatory Barriers).\3\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \2\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025-02345/unleashing-prosperity-through-deregulation.
    \3\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/04/15/2025-06463/reducing-anti-competitive-regulatory-barriers.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

b. America's FHIR-Forward Future
Background
    In 2012, Health Level Seven (HL7[supreg]) first published for 
industry feedback what is now called the Fast Healthcare 
Interoperability Resources (FHIR[supreg]) \4\ standard. FHIR aimed to 
build on prior HL7 work, including well-established messaging and 
document standards (e.g., HL7 Version 2, Clinical Document Architecture 
(CDA)). It also sought to improve developer usability and ease of 
implementation by leveraging internet[hyphen]scale tooling common to 
modern web services. Rooted in a RESTful architectural style,\5\ FHIR 
organizes data into granular ``resources'' (e.g., Patient, Observation,

[[Page 60972]]

MedicationRequest) that can be created, read, updated, or deleted 
through standard HTTP operations and expressed in formats such as JSON. 
FHIR was designed to help reduce implementer variation, allow for 
widespread web security conventions to be layered in (e.g., OAuth 2.0, 
OpenID Connect, and TLS), and facilitate more incremental adoption 
through modularity.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \4\ https://hl7.org/fhir/summary.html.
    \5\ https://ics.uci.edu/~fielding/pubs/dissertation/
fielding_dissertation.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Since FHIR Draft Standard for Trial Use (DSTU) 1 was officially 
published in September 2014, HL7 has iteratively advanced FHIR through 
a comprehensive ballot process that combines industry pilots, 
Connectathons, and formal community review. In 2015, ONC released the 
``2015 Edition Health Information Technology (Health IT) Certification 
Criteria, 2015 Edition Base Electronic Health Record (EHR) Definition, 
and ONC Health IT Certification Program Modifications'' Final Rule 
(2015 Edition Final Rule) (80 FR 62602), which among other 
requirements, adopted non-standards-based, functional application 
programming interface (API) certification criteria (45 CFR 
170.315(g)(7), (8), and (9)). The adoption of these certification 
criteria combined with the data elements specified in the ``common 
clinical data set'' (CCDS) helped catalyze the industry to focus on 
developing a consistent implementation guide for FHIR-based API 
deployment in the United States (US). This industry-led effort resulted 
in the ``Argonaut Data Query Implementation Guide'' based on FHIR DSTU 
2, which became commonly deployed in production and used as the basis 
to build early versions of patient access applications with the 
potential for nationwide scale.\6\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \6\ See https://www.healthit.gov/buzz-blog/health-it/the-heat-is-on-us-caught-fhir-in-2019; and also https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2018/01/apple-announces-effortless-solution-bringing-health-records-to-iPhone/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In parallel to this wave of standards development and industry 
implementation, API-focused interoperability policy also advanced. The 
21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act) (Pub. L. 114-255) was signed into 
law at the end of 2016 and ASTP/ONC subsequently engaged in rulemaking 
to implement its provisions. This included, among other new policies, 
the adoption of a FHIR-based API certification criterion (45 CFR 
170.315(g)(10)) and the establishment of an API Condition of 
Certification, which focused on the publication of APIs that would 
allow EHI ``to be accessed, exchanged, and used without special effort 
. . . including providing access to all data elements of a patient's 
electronic health record . . .''. On May 1, 2020, ONC published the 
``21st Century Cures Act: Interoperability, Information Blocking, and 
the ONC Health IT Certification Program'' Final Rule (Cures Act Final 
Rule) (85 FR 25642), which adopted a suite of FHIR-based requirements 
in the Certification Program. This final rule required support for 
HL7's FHIR US Core Implementation Guide (IG) (based on FHIR Release 4 
and consistent with United States Core Data for Interoperability 
(USCDI) v1 data elements), FHIR Bulk Data Access Implementation Guide, 
and HL7[supreg] SMART Application Launch Framework Implementation 
Guide. We stated that developers of certified health IT certified to 
the applicable criteria were required to upgrade certified health IT to 
these FHIR API standards and provide them to their customers by no 
later than May 2, 2022, in the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25948). We 
then extended the compliance date to December 31, 2022, in the 
``Information Blocking and the ONC Health IT Certification Program: 
Extension of Compliance Dates and Timeframes in Response to the COVID-
19 Public Health Emergency Interim'' Final Rule (85 FR 70072).
    In the years since the Cures Act Final Rule, ASTP/ONC and industry 
established an iterative, annual cycle whereby a new USCDI version is 
released that then helps inform further data element constraints for a 
new version of the FHIR-based US Core IG. This predictable, consistent, 
and collaborative approach has been transformative for standards 
development and FHIR-based policy making. It has also positioned the US 
as a world leader in FHIR adoption and use. Other federal agencies, 
such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA), Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), and 
National Institutes of Health (NIH) have also pursued FHIR-oriented 
regulatory policy and program implementations based on this foundation.
Resetting the Certification Program for a FHIR-Enabled Future
    America's interoperability arc in health care has bent decisively 
toward FHIR-based APIs. An open, interoperable health data ecosystem 
invites entrepreneurship, drives innovation, and cements American 
leadership and competitiveness in the expanding digital health 
marketplace. As discussed in this deregulatory proposed rule, we 
propose to aggressively reduce and remove long-standing functionality-
oriented and non-FHIR-based certification criteria from the 
Certification Program. While this approach would directly and rapidly 
reduce compliance burdens for health IT developers that participate in 
the Certification Program, more broadly, it enables ASTP/ONC to reset 
the Certification Program's regulatory scope and establish a new 
foundation on which to build FHIR-based API requirements in the future. 
This would allow more creative artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled 
interoperability solutions that combine FHIR with newer standards to 
emerge, such as Model Context Protocol (MCP) which ``standardizes how 
applications provide context to Large Language Models (LLMs)'',\7\ and 
further embrace the Cures Act's reference to ``. . . successor 
technology or standards . . .'' in the API Condition of 
Certification.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \7\ https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction.
    \8\ 42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    While FHIR provides the potential for better, faster, and more 
consistent ways to address emerging market needs and policy 
imperatives, more work is needed for certain use cases. We intend to 
continue to fully engage industry and our federal partners, such as 
CMS, to rapidly advance FHIR specifications for regulatory readiness. 
We also intend to sharpen the Certification Program's future focus to 
prioritize FHIR-based APIs that: (1) enhance automation and API 
performance; (2) move beyond read-only interactions; and (3) expand the 
scope of data available to support clinical efficiency, patient-
centered care, and timely reporting (e.g., public health, quality, 
government programs) use cases.
    The transition to a FHIR-based API ecosystem is a strategic 
imperative and an investment in the US's interoperability future. To 
execute this vision, it will require a collective commitment from 
policymakers, software developers, clinicians, payers, and patients 
alike. Together, we can build interoperable solutions that meet today's 
challenges and anticipate tomorrow's opportunities.
    In this proposed rule, our proposals remove or revise certain 
certification criteria that are consistent with our drive toward and 
our support for the FHIR standard, as discussed above. The push toward 
universal adoption of FHIR is not just important for secure, 
streamlined data access, it is a critical step toward modernizing our 
health care system with the ultimate goal of Making America Healthy 
Again.

[[Page 60973]]

B. Summary of Major Provisions

1. Health Information Technology Standards, Implementation 
Specifications, and Certification Criteria and Certification Programs 
for Health Information Technology (Part 170)
a. Certification Criteria for Health Information Technology
    We have identified certification criteria for proposed removal or 
revision. The removal or revision of the identified certification 
criteria would reduce burden and costs for health IT developers and 
clinicians, for reasons including but not limited to, eliminating the 
need to design and meet specific certification functionalities; 
prepare, test, and certify health IT in certain instances; and maintain 
conformance to certification requirements. We do not anticipate that 
the proposed removals or revisions would alter behavior across product 
implementations by health IT developers for the capabilities that have 
thus far been included as part of certification criteria in the 
Certification Program. We have observed over time that certification is 
likely no longer a primary factor driving improvements or compliance in 
particular areas, such as with respect to privacy and security. 
Generally, at the time of certification, developers have (in some cases 
for over a decade) consistently demonstrated for many certification 
criteria that their certified health IT can perform required 
functionalities in a conformant manner.\9\ Throughout this proposed 
rule, we have included proposed revisions and removals of certification 
criteria that, among other factors, we believe are no longer necessary 
to advance interoperability and no longer provide a strong market 
driver for initial adoption and implementation of the certified 
functionalities.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \9\ https://chpl.healthit.gov/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In total, out of the 60 certification criteria that are currently 
in effect, we propose to remove 34 and revise seven. Of the revised 
criteria, one of the proposed revisions would reduce the scope of the 
``decision support interventions'' certification criterion to fully 
remove the artificial intelligence (AI) ``model card'' requirements. We 
intend to retain and make no changes to 19 certification criteria, 
which include new and revised certification criteria that were adopted 
in the Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: Electronic Prior 
Authorization and Real-Time Prescription Benefit (HTI-4) Final Rule (90 
FR 37130). This final rule was published as a part of the ``Medicare 
Program; Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment Systems for Acute Care 
Hospitals (IPPS) and the Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment 
System and Policy Changes and Fiscal Year (FY) 2026 Rates; Changes to 
the FY 2025 IPPS Rates Due to Court Decision; Requirements for Quality 
Programs; and Other Policy Changes; Health Data, Technology, and 
Interoperability: Electronic Prescribing, Real-Time Prescription 
Benefit and Electronic Prior Authorization'' (FY2026 IPPS/LTCH PPS) 
Final Rule, which was published by CMS on August 4, 2025 (90 FR 36536).
b. Standards and Implementation Specifications for Health Information 
Technology
    In some instances where we propose to remove or revise a certain 
certification criterion, we also propose to remove the standard(s) that 
is referenced by the certification criterion. In some cases, we propose 
to remove standards consistent with a certification criterion 
transition period until January 1, 2027. In very limited circumstances, 
we retain a standard referenced in a certification criterion proposed 
for removal for purposes of health IT interoperability alignment.\10\ 
We also propose to remove standards that are outdated and no longer 
referenced in the Certification Program. Lastly, we propose to adopt 
USCDI v3.1 in Sec.  170.213.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \10\ Section 13111 and 13112 of the HITECH Act requires health 
IT systems and products to utilize standards adopted under section 
3004 of the PHSA in specified circumstances. The HHS Health IT 
Alignment Program, led by ASTP/ONC builds upon the HITECH to advance 
interoperability across HHS investments. See https://www.healthit.gov/topic/hhs-health-it-alignment-program.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

c. Terms and Definitions
    Because of the proposed removal of certain certification criteria 
as discussed above, we propose to make conforming edits to the terms 
and definitions in Sec.  170.102. We propose to revise the definition 
of ``Base EHR'' to remove references to criteria that we have proposed 
to remove from the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). We also propose 
to remove the definitions of ``Common Clinical Data Set,'' ``Global 
Unique Device Identification Database (GUDID),'' and ``Production 
Identifier'' because these terms are no longer referenced in 45 CFR 
part 170.
d. Conditions and Maintenance of Certification Requirements for Health 
IT Developers
    We propose to make conforming edits for several Conditions and 
Maintenance of Certification requirements, including the ``Assurances'' 
(Sec.  170.402), ``Application Programming Interfaces'' (Sec.  
170.404), and ``Attestations'' (Sec.  170.406) Conditions and 
Maintenance of Certification requirements. In addition to conforming 
edits, we also propose to descope the ``Real World Testing'' Condition 
and Maintenance of Certification requirements (Sec.  170.405) with 
deregulatory actions related to real world testing plans, results, and 
the use of the standards version advancement process (SVAP). These 
proposals are consistent with the enforcement discretion notice we 
issued on June 30, 2025.\11\ Lastly, we propose to remove and descope 
measures associated with the ``Insights'' Condition and Maintenance of 
Certification requirements (Sec.  170.407), consistent with the 
enforcement discretion we issued on April 29, 2025,\12\ to limit 
reporting requirements only to the ``use of FHIR in apps through 
certified health IT'' measure.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \11\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/real-world-testing-condition-and-maintenance-certification-requirements-enforcement.
    \12\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/insights-condition-and-maintenance-certification-enforcement-discretion-notice.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

e. ONC Health IT Certification Program Administrative Requirements
    We propose to make conforming edits, to remove references to 
certification criteria that we propose to remove in this proposed rule, 
in subpart E of 45 CFR part 170. Specifically, in Sec. Sec.  170.523, 
170.550, 170.555, and 170.570.
2. Information Blocking (Part 171)
    We propose to revise the Sec.  171.102 ``access'' and ``use'' 
definitions to emphasize that the definitions include automated means 
of access, exchange, or use of EHI--including, without limitation, 
autonomous AI systems. As an alternative proposal, we propose, in 
addition to updating the ``access'' and ``use'' definitions, to revise 
the ``exchange'' definition in a similar manner.
    We propose to remove the third party seeking modification use 
condition from the Infeasibility Exception (Sec.  171.204(a)(3)). This 
condition is susceptible to misuse by actors withholding EHI to 
unnecessarily inhibit access, exchange, and use of EHI by third parties 
that patients and health care providers want. Where any requested 
access, exchange, or use of EHI poses concerns such as specific threats 
to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the EHI involved, 
this condition is unnecessary. Activities reasonable and necessary to 
address

[[Page 60974]]

those concerns are covered by other exceptions.
    We propose to revise or, in the alternative, remove the manner 
exception exhausted condition (Sec.  171.204(a)(4)) from the 
Infeasibility Exception. Similar to the third party seeking 
modification use condition (Sec.  171.204(a)(3)), we believe this 
condition as currently codified is susceptible to misuse by actors 
holding EHI to unnecessarily inhibit access, exchange, and use of EHI. 
The revisions we propose to the manner exception exhausted condition 
(Sec.  171.204(a)(4)) would narrow its application to better align with 
our intent for this condition and reduce the risk of an actor misusing 
it. In the alternative, we propose to remove the entire condition to 
address our concerns.
    We propose to revise the Manner Exception's manner requested 
condition (Sec.  171.301(a)) to ensure that it is clear that the Manner 
Exception cannot be met with contracts that are not market rate, are 
contracts of adhesion, or are contracts containing unconscionable 
terms.
    We propose to remove subpart D from 45 CFR part 171, which includes 
the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement\TM\ (TEFCA\TM\) 
Manner Exception (Sec.  171.403) and associated definitions. Based on 
TEFCA's continued implementation, maturation, and public comments 
received--including those received in response to the CMS-ASTP/ONC 
Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (90 FR 21034) 
(CMS-ASTP/ONC RFI)--we believe the removal of the TEFCA Manner 
Exception (Sec.  171.403) is appropriate.

C. Severability

    It is our intent that if any provision of this rule were, if or 
when finalized, held to be invalid or unenforceable facially, or as 
applied to any person, plaintiff, or stayed pending further judicial or 
agency action, such provision shall be severable from other provisions 
of this rule, and from rules and regulations currently in effect, and 
not affect the remainder of this rule. It is also our intent that, 
unless such provision shall be held to be utterly invalid or 
unenforceable, it be construed to give the provision maximum effect 
permitted by law including in the application of the provision to other 
persons not similarly situated or to other, dissimilar circumstances 
from those where the provision may be held to be invalid or 
unenforceable.
    In this rule, we propose provisions that are intended to and will 
operate independently of each other, even if multiple of them serve the 
same or similar general purpose(s) or policy goal(s). Where a provision 
is necessarily dependent on another, the context generally makes that 
clear (such as by cross-reference to a particular standard, 
requirement, condition, or pre-requisite). Where a provision that is 
dependent on one that is stayed or held invalid or unenforceable (as 
described in the preceding paragraph) is included in a subparagraph, 
paragraph, or section within part 170 or 171 of 45 CFR, we intend that 
other provisions of such subparagraph(s), paragraph(s), or section(s) 
that operate independently of said provision would remain in effect.
    For example, if any proposed revision of any section or paragraph 
of part 170, if finalized, were stayed or held utterly invalid or 
unenforceable, we would intend for all other finalized revisions in 
part 170 that do not depend upon the stayed or invalidated revision to 
remain in full effect. To illustrate, if a removal of a certification 
criterion were to be finalized and then held to be entirely invalid or 
unenforceable, any corresponding removal of a cross-reference to that 
provision would depend on that revision and would be affected by the 
holding of invalidity or unenforceability. But in direct contrast, any 
revision to any other certification criterion or other Certification 
Program requirement or provision codified in part 170 that is not made 
based specifically on the removal of the certification criterion for 
which removal was held invalid or unenforceable, is intended to remain 
in full effect even if both revisions were proposed in this same 
proposed rule and were to be finalized in a single final rule.
    To provide another example, if we were to finalize the proposed 
removal of paragraph (a)(3) from Sec.  171.204 (the Infeasibility 
Exception), and the removal of this paragraph was stayed or held 
facially invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, we would intend 
for other finalized revisions in part 171, including without limitation 
the proposed revision or, in the alternative, removal of paragraph 
(a)(4) from Sec.  171.204 (the Infeasibility Exception) to continue in 
effect. Each of the conditions (subparagraphs) within Sec.  171.204(a) 
is designed to stand independent of any and every other subparagraph in 
Sec.  171.204(a). Moreover, each information blocking exception is 
intended and designed to stand independent of any and every other 
exception unless any specific provision of an exception might 
explicitly reference another exception. Likewise, any dependency on 
cross-referenced provision(s) is intended to be limited to the exact 
provision, or function of such provision, that relies upon the cross-
reference. For example, paragraph (a)(4) in Sec.  171.204 cross-
references subparagraphs (1)(i) and (1)(ii) in Sec.  171.301(b) (the 
Manner Exception's alternative manner condition). If either Sec.  
171.301(b)(1)(i) or (ii) were to be held facially invalid or 
unenforceable, paragraph (a)(4) in Sec.  171.204 as currently codified 
is intended to remain in effect, including with respect to its cross-
references to Sec.  171.301(b) as a whole and to whichever of the 
cross-referenced paragraphs ((i) or (ii)) in Sec.  171.301(b)(1) was 
not held facially invalid or unenforceable.
    If any revision to any provision of part 170 or 171 (such as the 
removal or revision of a specific condition within one information 
blocking exception in part 171 or a revision to a certification 
criterion in part 170) were stayed or held to be invalid or 
unenforceable as applied to any person, plaintiff, or circumstance, it 
is our intent that such provision--and any section or paragraph of part 
171 or 170 that may reference such provision--be construed to give the 
provision maximum effect permitted by law including in the application 
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other, 
dissimilar circumstances from those where the provision may be held to 
be invalid or unenforceable.

D. Costs and Benefits

    The Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) includes an updated analysis 
of the costs and benefits associated with the proposals in this 
proposed rule. The proposed deregulatory actions provide substantial 
relief for developers of certified health IT and significant cost 
savings realized from the revision and removal of certain Certification 
Program requirements. The cost savings have been estimated using the 
best available data and modeled on the costs estimated and finalized in 
prior ASTP/ONC rulemakings. The proposed deregulatory actions reduce 
the effort of developers of certified health IT to meet ongoing 
Certification Program requirements and reduce entry barriers for new 
Certification Program participants. The proposed actions, importantly, 
return effort back to developers of certified health IT to innovate 
with their technology, improve interoperability and third-party 
integration, and focus on the needs of their customers. We do not 
expect costs to be associated with these deregulatory proposals. We 
expect the proposed deregulatory actions to result in significant 
benefits for health IT developers, providers, ONC-Authorized 
Certification Bodies (ONC-

[[Page 60975]]

ACBs), ONC-Authorized Testing Laboratories (ONC-ATLs), and ASTP/ONC. 
Generally, these benefits are in the form of cost and time savings and 
reductions in administrative burden to comply with Certification 
Program requirements. The proposed actions reduce the scope and breadth 
of Certification Program requirements.
    The analysis included in this proposed rule indicates that the 
proposed updates to the Certification Program would result in $0 in 
implementation costs on developers of certified health IT. However, we 
do estimate some costs for reviewers who review this proposed rule. We 
estimate those costs to be $284,132 in total for an estimated 644 
reviewers, which include developers and medical associations. We do not 
quantify benefits for this proposed rule and instead rely on our 
calculation of cost savings to developers of certified health IT to 
quantify in dollars the time and effort developers would have expended 
had these requirements remained in effect in perpetuity. In total, this 
proposed rulemaking would result in a present value of cost savings of 
$1.53 billion in 2024 dollars and discounted at a rate of 7%, beginning 
in 2027 and in perpetuity.

II. Background

A. Statutory Basis

    The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health 
Act (HITECH Act), Title XIII of Division A and Title IV of Division B 
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5), 
was enacted on February 17, 2009. The HITECH Act amended the Public 
Health Service Act (PHSA) and created ``Title XXX--Health Information 
Technology and Quality'' (Title XXX) to improve health care quality, 
safety, and efficiency through the promotion of health IT and 
electronic health information (EHI) exchange.
    The 21st Century Cures Act (Pub. L. 114-255) (Cures Act) was 
enacted on December 13, 2016, to accelerate the discovery, development, 
and delivery of 21st century cures, and for other purposes. The Cures 
Act, through Title IV--Delivery, amended the HITECH Act by modifying or 
adding certain provisions to the PHSA relating to health IT.
1. Standards, Implementation Specifications, and Certification Criteria
    The HITECH Act established two Federal advisory committees, the 
Health IT Policy Committee (HITPC) and the Health IT Standards 
Committee (HITSC). Each was responsible for advising the National 
Coordinator for Health Information Technology (National Coordinator) on 
different aspects of standards, implementation specifications, and 
certification criteria.
    Section 4003(e) of the Cures Act amended sections 3002 and 3003 of 
the PHSA by replacing, in an amended section 3002, the HITPC and HITSC 
with one committee named the Health Information Technology Advisory 
Committee (Health IT Advisory Committee or HITAC). Section 3002(a) of 
the PHSA, as added by the Cures Act, establishes that the HITAC 
recommends to the National Coordinator policies and standards, 
implementation specifications, and certification criteria, relating to 
the implementation of a health information technology infrastructure, 
nationally and locally, that advances the electronic access, exchange, 
and use of health information. Further described in section 3002(b)(1) 
of the PHSA, this includes recommending to the National Coordinator a 
policy framework to advance interoperable health information technology 
infrastructure, updating recommendations to the policy framework, and 
making new recommendations, as appropriate. Section 3002(b)(2)(A) of 
the PHSA specifies that in general, the HITAC shall recommend to the 
National Coordinator for purposes of adoption under section 3004, 
standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria 
and an order of priority for the development, harmonization, and 
recognition of such standards, specifications, and certification 
criteria. Like the process previously required of the former HITPC and 
HITSC, section 3002(b)(5) of the PHSA requires the HITAC to develop a 
schedule, updated annually, for the assessment of policy 
recommendations, which the Secretary publishes in the Federal Register.
    Section 3004 of the PHSA establishes a process for the adoption of 
health IT standards, implementation specifications, and certification 
criteria and authorizes the Secretary to adopt such standards, 
implementation specifications, and certification criteria. As specified 
in section 3004(a)(1), the Secretary is required, in consultation with 
representatives of other relevant federal agencies, to jointly review 
standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria 
endorsed by the National Coordinator in section 3001(c) and 
subsequently determine whether to propose the adoption of such 
standards, implementation specifications, or certification criteria. 
Section 3004(a)(3) requires the Secretary to publish all such 
determinations in the Federal Register.
    Section 3004(b)(3) of the PHSA, titled, Subsequent Standards 
Activity, provides that the Secretary shall adopt additional standards, 
implementation specifications, and certification criteria as necessary 
and consistent with the schedule published by the HITAC. We consider 
this provision in the broader context of the HITECH Act and Cures Act 
to grant the Secretary the authority and discretion to adopt standards, 
implementation specifications, and certification criteria that have 
been recommended by the HITAC and endorsed by the National Coordinator, 
as well as other appropriate and necessary health IT standards, 
implementation specifications, and certification criteria.
2. Health IT Certification Program
    Section 3001(c)(5) of the PHSA provides the National Coordinator 
with the authority to establish a certification program or programs for 
the voluntary certification of health IT. Section 3001(c)(5)(A) 
specifies that the National Coordinator, in consultation with the 
Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), 
shall keep or recognize a program or programs for the voluntary 
certification of health IT that is in compliance with applicable 
certification criteria adopted in section 3004 of the PHSA.
    The certification program(s) must also include, as appropriate, 
testing of the technology in accordance with section 13201(b) of the 
HITECH Act. Overall, section 13201(b) of the HITECH Act requires that, 
with respect to the development of standards and implementation 
specifications, the Director of NIST shall support the establishment of 
a conformance testing infrastructure, including the development of 
technical test beds. The HITECH Act also indicates that the development 
of this conformance testing infrastructure may include a program to 
accredit independent, non-federal laboratories to perform testing.
    Section 4002(a) of the Cures Act amended section 3001(c)(5) of the 
PHSA by adding section 3001(c)(5)(D), which requires the Secretary, 
through notice and comment rulemaking, to require conditions of 
certification and maintenance of certification for the Certification 
Program. Specifically, the health IT developers or entities with 
technology certified under the Certification Program must, in order to 
maintain such certification status, adhere to certain conditions and

[[Page 60976]]

maintenance of certification requirements concerning information 
blocking; assurances regarding appropriate exchange, access, and use of 
electronic health information; communications regarding health IT; 
APIs; real world testing; attestations regarding certain conditions and 
maintenance of certification requirements; and submission of reporting 
criteria under the EHR Reporting Program in accordance with section 
3009A(b) of the PHSA.

B. Regulatory History

    The Secretary issued an interim final rule with request for 
comments on January 13, 2010, ``Health Information Technology: Initial 
Set of Standards, Implementation Specifications, and Certification 
Criteria for Electronic Health Record Technology'' (the ``S&CC January 
2010 Interim Final Rule'') (75 FR 2014), which adopted an initial set 
of standards, implementation specifications, and certification 
criteria. On March 10, 2010, the Secretary issued a proposed rule, 
``Proposed Establishment of Certification Programs for Health 
Information Technology'' (75 FR 11328), that proposed both temporary 
and permanent certification programs for the purposes of testing and 
certifying health IT. A final rule establishing the temporary 
certification program was published on June 24, 2010, ``Establishment 
of the Temporary Certification Program for Health Information 
Technology'' (75 FR 36158), and a final rule establishing the permanent 
certification program was published on January 7, 2011, ``Establishment 
of the Permanent Certification Program for Health Information 
Technology'' (76 FR 1262).
    After consideration of the comments received on the S&CC January 
2010 Interim Final Rule, a final rule was issued to complete the 
adoption of the initial set of standards, implementation 
specifications, and certification criteria and realign them with the 
final objectives and measures established for the EHR Incentive 
Programs Stage 1, titled ``Health Information Technology: Initial Set 
of Standards, Implementation Specifications, and Certification Criteria 
for Electronic Health Record Technology'' (75 FR 44590, July 28, 2010) 
(2011 Edition Final Rule). The 2011 Edition Final Rule also established 
the first version of the certified electronic health record technology 
(CEHRT) definition. Subsequent to the 2011 Edition Final Rule, on 
October 13, 2010, we issued an interim final rule ``Health Information 
Technology: Revisions to Initial Set of Standards, Implementation 
Specifications, and Certification Criteria for Electronic Health Record 
Technology'' with a request for comment to remove certain 
implementation specifications related to public health surveillance 
that had been previously adopted in the 2011 Edition Final Rule (75 FR 
62686).
    The standards, implementation specifications, and certification 
criteria adopted by the Secretary in the 2011 Edition Final Rule 
established the capabilities that CEHRT must include in order to, at a 
minimum, support the achievement of EHR Incentive Programs Stage 1 by 
eligible professionals (EPs), eligible hospitals, and critical access 
hospitals (CAHs) under the ``Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Electronic 
Health Record Incentive Program'' final rule (75 FR 44314, July 28, 
2010) (EHR Incentive Programs Stage 1 Final Rule).
    On March 7, 2012, the Secretary issued a proposed rule with request 
for comments titled ``Health Information Technology: Standards, 
Implementation Specifications, and Certification Criteria for 
Electronic Health Record Technology, 2014 Edition; Revisions to the 
Permanent Certification Program for Health Information Technology'' (77 
FR 13832) (2014 Edition Proposed Rule), which proposed new and revised 
standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria.
    After consideration of the comments received on the 2014 Edition 
Proposed Rule, a final rule titled ``Health Information Technology: 
Standards, Implementation Specifications, and Certification Criteria 
for Electronic Health Record Technology, 2014 Edition; Revisions to the 
Permanent Certification Program for Health Information Technology'' (77 
FR 54163) (2014 Edition Final Rule) was issued on September 4, 2012, to 
adopt the 2014 Edition set of standards, implementation specifications, 
and certification criteria and realign them with the final objectives 
and measures established for the EHR Incentive Programs Stage 2, as 
well as Stage 1 revisions. The 2014 Edition Final Rule adopted a 
proposal to change the Permanent Certification Program's name to the 
``ONC HIT Certification Program,'' revised the process for permitting 
the use of newer versions of ``minimum standard'' code sets, modified 
the certification processes ONC-ACBs need to follow for certifying EHR 
Modules in a manner that provides clear implementation direction and 
compliance with the new certification criteria, and eliminated the 
certification requirement that every EHR Module be certified to the 
``privacy and security'' certification criteria.
    The standards, implementation specifications, and certification 
criteria adopted by the Secretary in the 2014 Edition Final Rule 
established the capabilities that CEHRT must include in order to, at a 
minimum, support the achievement of the EHR Incentive Programs Stage 2 
by EPs, eligible hospitals, and CAHs under the ``Medicare and Medicaid 
Programs; Electronic Health Record Incentive Program--Stage 2'' final 
rule (77 FR 53968, September 4, 2012) (EHR Incentive Programs Stage 2 
Final Rule).
    On December 7, 2012, an interim final rule with a request for 
comment, titled ``Health Information Technology: Revisions to the 2014 
Edition Electronic Health Record Certification Criteria; and Medicare 
and Medicaid Programs; Revisions to the Electronic Health Record 
Incentive Program'' (77 FR 72985), was jointly issued and published by 
ONC and CMS to update certain standards that had been previously 
adopted in the 2014 Edition Final Rule. The interim final rule also 
revised the EHR Incentive Programs by adding an alternative measure for 
the Stage 2 objective for hospitals to provide structured electronic 
laboratory results to ambulatory providers, corrected the regulation 
text for the measures associated with the objective for hospitals to 
provide patients the ability to view online, download, and transmit 
information about a hospital admission, and made the case number 
threshold exemption policy for clinical quality measure (CQM) reporting 
applicable for eligible hospitals and CAHs beginning with FY 2013. In 
addition, the interim final rule provided notice of CMS's intent to 
issue technical corrections to the electronic specifications for CQMs 
released on October 25, 2012. On September 4, 2014, a final rule 
``Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Modifications to the Medicare and 
Medicaid Electronic Health Record (EHR) Incentive Program for 2014 and 
Other Changes to the EHR Incentive Program; and Health Information 
Technology: Revisions to the Certified EHR Technology Definition and 
EHR Certification Changes Related to Standards'' (79 FR 52910) was 
published adopting these proposals.
    On November 4, 2013, the Secretary published an interim final rule 
with a request for comment titled ``2014 Edition Electronic Health 
Record Certification Criteria: Revision to the Definition of `Common 
Meaningful Use (MU) Data Set' '' (78 FR 65884) to make a minor revision 
to the Common MU Data Set definition. This revision was intended to 
allow more flexibility with respect to the representation of dental

[[Page 60977]]

procedures data for EHR technology testing and certification.
    On February 26, 2014, the Secretary published a proposed rule 
titled ``Voluntary 2015 Edition Electronic Health Record (EHR) 
Certification Criteria; Interoperability Updates and Regulatory 
Improvements'' (79 FR 10880) (``Voluntary Edition Proposed Rule''). The 
proposed rule proposed a voluntary edition of certification criteria 
that was designed to enhance interoperability, promote innovation, and 
incorporate ``bug fixes'' to improve upon the 2014 Edition. The 
Voluntary Edition Proposed Rule also included proposals that focused on 
improving regulatory clarity, simplifying the certification of EHR 
Modules that are designed for purposes other than meeting requirements 
of the EHR Incentive Programs, and discontinuing the use of the 
Complete EHR definition. A correction notice was published for the 
Voluntary Edition Proposed Rule on March 19, 2014, entitled ``Voluntary 
2015 Edition Electronic Health Record (EHR) Certification Criteria; 
Interoperability Updates and Regulatory Improvements; Correction'' (79 
FR 15282). This correction notice corrected the preamble text and gap 
certification table for four certification criteria that were omitted 
from the list of certification criteria eligible for gap certification 
for the 2015 Edition EHR certification criteria. On September 11, 2014, 
a final rule was published titled ``2014 Edition Release 2 Electronic 
Health Record (EHR) Certification Criteria and the ONC HIT 
Certification Program; Regulatory Flexibilities, Improvements, and 
Enhanced Health Information Exchange'' (79 FR 54430) (2014 Edition 
Release 2 Final Rule). The final rule adopted a small subset of the 
original proposals in the Voluntary Edition Proposed Rule as optional 
and revised 2014 Edition EHR certification criteria that provide 
flexibility, clarity, and enhance health information exchange. It also 
finalized administrative proposals (i.e., removal of regulatory text 
from the CFR) and proposals for the ONC HIT Certification Program that 
provide improvements. We issued the 2014 Edition Release 2 Final Rule 
to complete the rulemaking for the Voluntary Edition Proposed Rule. The 
2014 Edition Release 2 Final Rule discontinued the ``Complete EHR'' 
certification concept beginning with the proposed 2015 Edition, adopted 
an updated standard (ISO/IEC 17065) for the accreditation of ONC-ACBs, 
and adopted the ``ONC Certified HIT'' certification and design mark for 
required use by ONC-ACBs under the Certification Program.
    On May 23, 2014, CMS and ONC jointly published a proposed rule 
titled ``Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Modifications to the Medicare 
and Medicaid Electronic Health Record Incentive Programs for 2014; and 
Health Information Technology: Revisions to the Certified EHR 
Technology Definition'' (79 FR 29732). The proposed rule proposed to 
update the EHR Incentive Programs Stage 2 and Stage 3 participation 
timeline. It proposed to revise the CEHRT definition to permit the use 
of EHR technology certified to the 2011 Edition to meet the CEHRT 
definition for FY/CY 2014. It also proposed to allow EPs, eligible 
hospitals, and CAHs that could not fully implement EHR technology 
certified to the 2014 Edition for an EHR reporting period in 2014 due 
to delays in the availability of such technology to continue to use EHR 
technology certified to the 2011 Edition or a combination of EHR 
technology certified to the 2011 Edition and 2014 Edition for the EHR 
reporting periods in CY 2014 and FY 2014. On September 4, 2014, a final 
rule titled ``Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Modifications to the 
Medicare and Medicaid Electronic Health Record (EHR) Incentive Program 
for 2014 and Other Changes to the EHR Incentive Program; and Health 
Information Technology: Revisions to the Certified EHR Technology 
Definition and EHR Certification Changes Related to Standards'' (CEHRT 
Flexibility Final Rule) was published (79 FR 52910) adopting these 
proposals.
    On March 30, 2015, the Secretary published a proposed rule titled 
``2015 Edition Health Information Technology (Health IT) Certification 
Criteria, 2015 Edition Base Electronic Health Record (EHR) Definition, 
and ONC Health IT Certification Program Modifications'' (80 FR 16804) 
(2015 Edition Proposed Rule). The 2015 Edition Proposed Rule proposed 
revisions to the Certification Program with a revised edition of 
certification criteria that was designed to enhance interoperability.
    On October 16, 2015, the Secretary published a final rule titled 
``2015 Edition Health Information (Health IT) Certification Criteria, 
2015 Edition Base Electronic Health Record (EHR) Definition, and ONC 
Health IT Certification Program Modifications'' (80 FR 62602) (2015 
Edition Final Rule). The 2015 Edition Final Rule established a new 
edition of certification criteria (2015 Edition) and a new 2015 Edition 
Base EHR definition. CMS subsequently established the 2015 Edition Base 
EHR definition as encompassing the minimum capabilities and the related 
minimum standards and implementation specifications that CEHRT would 
need to include to support the achievement of ``meaningful use'' by 
eligible clinicians, eligible hospitals, and CAHs under the Medicare 
and Medicaid EHR Incentive Programs (the predecessors to the Medicare 
Promoting Interoperability Program and the Promoting Interoperability 
performance category under the Merit-based Incentive Payment System 
(MIPS)). The final rule also adopted a proposal to change the 
Certification Program's name to the ``ONC Health IT Certification 
Program'' from the ONC HIT Certification Program, modified the 
Certification Program to make it more accessible to other types of 
health IT beyond EHR technology and for health IT that supports care 
and practice settings beyond the ambulatory and inpatient settings, and 
adopted new and revised Principles of Proper Conduct (PoPC) for ONC-
ACBs. A final rule making corrections and clarifications was published 
for the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 76868) on December 11, 2015, to 
correct preamble and regulatory text errors and clarify requirements of 
the CCDS, the 2015 Edition privacy and security certification 
framework, and the mandatory disclosures for health IT developers.
    After issuing a proposed rule on March 2, 2016, ``ONC Health IT 
Certification Program: Enhanced Oversight and Accountability'' (81 FR 
11056), we published a final rule by the same title (81 FR 72404) (EOA 
Final Rule) on October 19, 2016. The EOA Final Rule finalized 
modifications and new requirements under the Certification Program, 
including provisions related to our role in the Certification Program. 
The EOA Final Rule created a regulatory framework for our direct review 
of health IT certified under the Certification Program, including, when 
necessary, requiring the correction of non-conformities found in health 
IT certified under the Certification Program and suspending and 
terminating certifications issued to Complete EHRs and Health IT 
Modules. The final rule also set forth processes for us to authorize 
and oversee accredited testing laboratories under the Certification 
Program. In addition, it included provisions for expanded public 
availability of certified health IT surveillance results.
    On March 4, 2019, the Secretary published a proposed rule titled 
``21st Century Cures Act: Interoperability, Information Blocking, and 
the ONC Health IT Certification Program'' (84 FR

[[Page 60978]]

7424) (Cures Act Proposed Rule). The proposed rule proposed to 
implement certain provisions of the 21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act) 
that would advance interoperability and support the access, exchange, 
and use of electronic health information.
    On May 1, 2020, the Cures Act Final Rule was published in the 
Federal Register (85 FR 25642). The final rule implemented certain 
provisions of the Cures Act, including Conditions and Maintenance of 
Certification requirements for health IT developers, the voluntary 
certification of health IT for use by pediatric health providers, and 
reasonable and necessary activities that do not constitute information 
blocking. The final rule also implemented certain parts of the Cures 
Act to support patients' access to their electronic health information 
(EHI), and the implementation of information blocking policies that 
support patient electronic access. Additionally, the final rule 
modified the 2015 Edition health IT certification criteria and 
Certification Program in other ways to advance interoperability, 
enhance health IT certification, and reduce burden and costs, as well 
as to improve patient and health care provider access to EHI and 
promote competition. On November 4, 2020, the Secretary published an 
interim final rule with comment period titled ``Information Blocking 
and the ONC Health IT Certification Program: Extension of Compliance 
Dates and Timeframes in Response to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency'' (85 FR 70064) (Cures Act Interim Final Rule). The interim 
final rule extended certain compliance dates and timeframes adopted in 
the Cures Act Final Rule to offer the health care system additional 
flexibilities in furnishing services to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, 
including extending the applicability date for information blocking 
provisions to April 5, 2021.
    On April 18, 2023, the Secretary published a proposed rule titled 
``Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: Certification Program 
Updates, Algorithm Transparency, and Information Sharing'' (88 FR 
23746) (HTI-1 Proposed Rule). The HTI-1 Proposed Rule proposed to 
implement the EHR Reporting Program provision of the Cures Act by 
establishing new Conditions and Maintenance of Certification 
requirements for health IT developers under the Certification Program. 
The HTI-1 Proposed Rule also proposed several updates to certification 
criteria and implementation specifications recognized by the 
Certification Program, including revised certification criteria for: 
``clinical decision support,'' ``patient demographics and 
observations,'' and ``electronic case reporting.'' The HTI-1 Proposed 
Rule also proposed to establish a new baseline version of the USCDI. 
Additionally, the HTI-1 Proposed Rule also proposed enhancements to 
support information sharing under the information blocking regulations.
    On January 9, 2024, the Secretary issued the ``Health Data, 
Technology, and Interoperability: Certification Program Updates, 
Algorithm Transparency, and Information Sharing'' final rule (HTI-1 
Final Rule), which implemented the EHR Reporting Program provision of 
the 21st Century Cures Act and established new Conditions and 
Maintenance of Certification requirements for health IT developers 
under the Certification Program (89 FR 1192). The HTI-1 Final Rule also 
made several updates to certification criteria and standards recognized 
by the Certification Program. The Certification Program updates 
included revised certification criteria for ``decision support 
interventions'' (DSIs), ``patient demographics and observations,'' and 
``electronic case reporting,'' as well as adopted a new baseline 
version of the USCDI standard, USCDI Version 3 (v3). Additionally, the 
HTI-1 Final Rule provided enhancements to support information sharing 
under the information blocking regulations. Through these provisions, 
we sought to advance interoperability, improve algorithm transparency, 
and support the access, exchange, and use of EHI. The HTI-1 Final Rule 
also updated numerous technical standards in the Certification Program 
to advance interoperability, enhance health IT certification, and 
reduce burden and costs for health IT developers and users of health 
IT.
    On August 5, 2024, the Secretary published a proposed rule titled 
``Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: Patient Engagement, 
Information Sharing, and Public Health Interoperability'' (89 FR 63498) 
(HTI-2 Proposed Rule). The HTI-2 Proposed Rule sought to advance 
interoperability, improve transparency, and support the access, 
exchange, and use of EHI through proposals for: standards adoption; 
adoption of certification criteria to advance public health data 
exchange; expanded uses of certified APIs, such as for electronic prior 
authorization, patient access, care management, and care coordination; 
and information sharing under the information blocking regulations. 
Additionally, the HTI-2 Proposed Rule proposed to establish a new 
baseline version of the USCDI standard and proposed to update the 
Certification Program to enhance interoperability and optimize 
certification processes to reduce burden and costs. The HTI-2 Proposed 
Rule also proposed to implement certain provisions related to TEFCA, 
which would support the reliability, privacy, security, and trust 
within TEFCA.
    On December 16, 2024, the Secretary issued the ``Health Data, 
Technology, and Interoperability: Trusted Exchange Framework and Common 
Agreement (TEFCA)'' final rule (89 FR 101772) (HTI-2 Final Rule) which 
implemented advancements to interoperability, improved transparency, 
and supported the access, exchange, and use of electronic health 
information. The HTI-2 Final Rule codified definitions of certain TEFCA 
terms in Sec.  171.401 of the information blocking regulations and 
finalized the 45 CFR part 172 TEFCA provisions.
    On December 17, 2024, the Secretary issued the ``Health Data, 
Technology, and Interoperability: Protecting Care Access'' final rule 
(89 FR 102512) (HTI-3 Final Rule). The HTI-3 Final Rule finalized 
certain proposals from the HTI-2 Proposed Rule to support the access, 
exchange, and use of EHI. The final rule amended the information 
blocking regulations to revise two existing information blocking 
exceptions and established an additional reasonable and necessary 
activity that does not constitute information blocking referred to as 
the Protecting Care Access Exception.
    On July 31, 2025, ASTP/ONC finalized the ``Health Data, Technology, 
and Interoperability: Electronic Prescribing, Real-Time Prescription 
Benefit and Electronic Prior Authorization'' final rule (90 FR 37130) 
(HTI-4 Final Rule), as a part of the FY2026 IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule, 
published by CMS on August 4, 2025 (90 FR 36536). The HTI-4 Final Rule 
finalized a limited subset of the proposals in the HTI-2 Proposed Rule 
(89 FR 63498) and focused on improving care delivery and reducing 
administrative burden through the exchange of clinical and 
administrative information. The HTI-4 Final Rule updated the ONC Health 
IT Certification Program to add several new certification criteria that 
advance health care providers' ability to engage in electronic 
prescribing, real-time prescription benefit checks, and electronic 
prior authorization.

[[Page 60979]]

III. Health Information Technology Standards, Implementation 
Specifications, and Certification Criteria and Certification Programs 
for Health Information Technology (Part 170)

Reading This Proposed Rule

    In this preamble, we present our proposals in an order that begins 
with the certification criteria we propose to remove and subsequently 
the standards, definitions, and other related Certification Program 
provisions proposed for removal or revision. This approach should make 
it easier for readers to follow our proposed Certification Program 
removals, in part, due to the natural cascading effects of proposing to 
remove or revise a certification criterion. For example, we propose to 
remove the ``application access--all data request'' certification 
criterion in 45 CFR 170.315(g)(9), the referenced HL7 CDA R2 
Implementation Guide: C-CDA Templates for Clinical Notes R2.1 Companion 
guide, Release 2-US Realm, October 2019 (45 CFR 170.205(a)(5)), and the 
``application access--all data request'' certification criterion from 
the Base EHR definition. In some cases, we propose to remove a standard 
consistent with a certification criterion transition period until 
January 1, 2027. In very limited circumstances, we retain a standard 
that is cross-referenced in a certification criterion that we propose 
to remove. We do this because the standard is cross-referenced in 
another criterion and/or supports health IT interoperability alignment. 
For example, although we propose to remove the ``transport methods and 
other protocols'' certification criteria in Sec.  170.315(h), we 
propose to retain the Direct Project transport standard adopted in 
Sec.  170.202(a)(2) because we believe keeping the primary Direct 
Project standard would acknowledge the current utilization of the 
Direct standard, while removing the certification criteria in Sec.  
170.315(h) recognizes the ongoing technological advancements related to 
transport, including movement toward FHIR-based standards, and would 
encourage and provide space for further innovation and market 
competition in this area. We also propose to remove the certification 
criteria in Sec.  170.315(h) from the ``Base EHR'' definition. 
Additionally, we solely propose to remove standards when they are no 
longer referenced by existing certification criteria. Further, as noted 
above, we propose to remove certain Conditions and Maintenance of 
Certification requirements and other Certification Program 
requirements.

RFI Feedback

    Recently, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the 
Department, and CMS-ASTP/ONC issued requests for information (RFIs) 
related to deregulation. We reviewed comments related to ASTP/ONC. In 
response to the CMS-ASTP/ONC Request for Information; Health Technology 
Ecosystem (90 FR 21034) (CMS-ASTP/ONC RFI), commenters expressed a 
strong desire to modernize the Certification Program to be more 
modular, API-focused, and less centered on specific EHR 
functionalities. Commenters recommended simplifying the process, 
reducing costs, and expanding certification requirements to ensure 
payers and other health IT systems adhere to the same interoperability 
standards. There was an overwhelming demand to strengthen, expand, and 
mandate the use of FHIR-based APIs. Commenters strongly advocated for 
retiring outdated, less efficient standards to reduce complexity. A 
central theme from commenters was the need for regulatory modernization 
to reduce administrative and financial burdens on providers and 
technology developers. Commenters also expressed concern that existing 
certification requirements are often too rigid, costly, and not aligned 
with emerging care models like value-based care or specialized 
technologies such as AI and remote monitoring. A commenter that 
responded to the HHS RFI expressed concerns with the Real World Testing 
and Insights Conditions of Certification, stating that the requirements 
are overly burdensome and offer limited value to providers or patients. 
The commenter also recommended retiring low-value certification 
criteria requirements that add complexity without improving care. A 
commenter that responded to the OMB RFI suggested that revisions could 
be made to the Conditions and Maintenance of Certification requirements 
that focus on streamlined and meaningful oversight without placing 
undue demands on developers, especially where those demands offer 
limited direct benefit to health care provider customers or their 
patients. The commenter also suggested the removal of ``non-
interoperability-focused, redundant, or valueless'' criteria and focus 
on promoting standardized and scalable interoperability. ASTP/ONC 
addresses a number of these comments in the proposals below, 
specifically the suggestions to remove non-interoperability-focused and 
redundant certification criteria. Commenters were strongly supportive 
of our focus on FHIR-based standards. Some commenters, however, 
included suggestions related to new regulatory actions. These 
suggestions are out of scope for this proposed deregulatory rule, but 
we may consider the suggestions for a future rulemaking.

A. Certification Criteria for Health Information Technology

    In this proposed rule we have identified certification criteria for 
removal or revision. For some of the criteria below, we justify 
removing the certification criteria because they have been ``widely 
adopted'' or ``widely implemented.'' To determine if the certification 
criterion is ``widely adopted'' or ``widely implemented,'' we 
considered whether and for how long the certification criterion has 
been included in the Base EHR definition in Sec.  170.102, or the 
Certified Electronic Health Record Technology (CEHRT) definitions 
established by CMS in 42 CFR 495.4 and 414.1305. The CEHRT definitions 
incorporate the Base EHR definition and may also incorporate 
certification criteria necessary to report applicable objectives and 
measures under the Medicare Promoting Interoperability (PI) Program or 
the Promoting Interoperability performance category in the Merit-based 
Incentive Payment System (MIPS), certification criteria determined 
applicable for an Alternative Payment Model (APM), and other 
certification criteria as specified. To participate in the Promoting 
Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category, eligible hospitals, CAHs, and eligible clinicians 
must use CEHRT as specified by the applicable definition. In addition, 
CEHRT is required for the purposes of determinations under 42 CFR 
414.1415 and 414.1420 regarding Advanced APM status. ASTP/ONC tracks 
and publishes data on the adoption and use of health IT, including 
CEHRT, by US hospitals and office-based physicians. Our most recent 
survey data from 2021 shows that 96 percent of hospitals and 78 percent 
of physicians reported having a certified EHR.\13\ As discussed in more 
detail below, we provide this analysis and consider certain 
certification criteria as ``widely adopted'' or ``widely implemented'' 
because they are included in the Base EHR or CEHRT definitions and 
adopted by 96 and 78 percent of hospitals and physicians, respectively. 
Our proposals to remove or

[[Page 60980]]

revise certain certification criteria are also consistent with our 
drive toward and our support for the FHIR standard as mentioned above 
in section I.A and are responsive to comments we received on the 
recently issued RFIs. We explain our proposals in detail in their 
respective sections of the preamble and have provided a table (see 
Table 1) for a list of all proposed certification criteria removals and 
revisions.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \13\ https://www.healthit.gov/data/quickstats/national-trends-hospital-and-physician-adoption-electronic-health-records.

                        Table 1--Proposed Removals or Revisions of Certification Criteria
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Certification criteria               Reference                Remove/revise                 Timing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Patient demographics and             Sec.   170.315(a)(5)..  Revise......................  Effective date of
 observations.                                                                              final rule.
Clinical decision support..........  Sec.   170.315(a)(9)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Family health history..............  Sec.   170.315(a)(12).  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
                                                                                            2027.
Implantable device list............  Sec.   170.315(a)(14).  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Transitions of care................  Sec.   170.315(b)(1)..  Revise......................  Effective January 1,
                                                                                            2027.
Clinical information reconciliation  Sec.   170.315(b)(2)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
 and incorporation.                                                                         2027.
Security tags--summary of care--     Sec.   170.315(b)(7)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
 send.                                                                                      final rule.
Security tags--summary of care--     Sec.   170.315(b)(8)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
 receive.                                                                                   final rule.
Care plan..........................  Sec.   170.315(b)(9)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Decision support interventions.....  Sec.   170.315(b)(11).  Revise......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Clinical quality measures--report..  Sec.   170.315(c)(3)..  Revise......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Clinical quality measures--filter..  Sec.   170.315(c)(4)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
                                                                                            2027.
Authentication, access control,      Sec.   170.315(d)(1)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
 authorization.                                                                             final rule.
Auditable events and tamper-         Sec.   170.315(d)(2)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
 resistance.                                                                                final rule.
Audit report(s)....................  Sec.   170.315(d)(3)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Amendments.........................  Sec.   170.315(d)(4)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Automatic access time-out..........  Sec.   170.315(d)(5)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Emergency access...................  Sec.   170.315(d)(6)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
End-user device encryption.........  Sec.   170.315(d)(7)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Integrity..........................  Sec.   170.315(d)(8)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Trusted connection.................  Sec.   170.315(d)(9)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Auditing actions on health           Sec.   170.315(d)(10).  Remove......................  Effective date of
 information.                                                                               final rule.
Accounting of disclosures..........  Sec.   170.315(d)(11).  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Encrypt authentication credentials.  Sec.   170.315(d)(12).  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Multi-factor authentication........  Sec.   170.315(d)(13).  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
View, download, and transmit to 3rd  Sec.   170.315(e)(1)..  Revise......................  Effective data of
 party.                                                                                     final rule.
Patient health information capture.  Sec.   170.315(e)(3)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
                                                                                            2027.
Transmission to cancer registries..  Sec.   170.315(f)(4)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
                                                                                            2027.
Transmission to public health        Sec.   170.315(f)(5)..  Revise......................  Effective date of
 agencies--electronic case                                                                  final rule.
 reporting.
Transmission to public health        Sec.   170.315(f)(6)..  Revise......................  Effective date of
 agencies--antimicrobial use and                                                            final rule.
 resistance reporting.
Transmission to public health        Sec.   170.315(f)(7)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
 agencies--health care surveys.                                                             2027.
Automated numerator recording......  Sec.   170.315(g)(1)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
                                                                                            2027.
Automated measure calculation......  Sec.   170.315(g)(2)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
                                                                                            2027.
Safety-enhanced design.............  Sec.   170.315(g)(3)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Quality management system..........  Sec.   170.315(g)(4)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Accessibility-centered design......  Sec.   170.315(g)(5)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Consolidated CDA creation            Sec.   170.315(g)(6)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
 performance.                                                                               final rule.
Application access--patient          Sec.   170.315(g)(7)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
 selection.                                                                                 2027.
Application access--all data         Sec.   170.315(g)(9)..  Remove......................  Effective January 1,
 request.                                                                                   2027.
Direct Project.....................  Sec.   170.315(h)(1)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
                                                                                            final rule.
Direct Project, Edge Protocol, and   Sec.   170.315(h)(2)..  Remove......................  Effective date of
 XDR/XDM.                                                                                   final rule.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Clinical Certification Criteria
a. Patient Demographics
    In the 2014 Edition Final Rule, we included ``demographics'' in the 
Base EHR definition in Sec.  170.102 (77 FR 54265). We noted that 
including demographics in the Base EHR definition aligns with the 
statutory ``Qualified EHR'' definition and is intended to facilitate 
the recording, capture, and access to a patient's demographic data. In 
the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62602), we added the requirement to 
record, capture, and access a patient's sex, sexual orientation, and 
gender identity for Health IT Modules certified to the demographics' 
certification criterion (Sec.  170.315(a)(5)) (80 FR 62747). The 2015 
Edition Final Rule also defined a required set of standardized 
terminology to represent each of these data elements (80 FR 62618 
through 62620).
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1428), we adopted USCDI v3, which 
includes data elements for Sex, Sexual Orientation, and Gender 
Identity. To ensure consistent capture of these data elements across 
health IT, we made updates to the data elements in Sec.  170.315(a)(5) 
to incorporate the newly adopted data elements in USCDI v3. 
Specifically, these same data elements were adopted as ``sex'' (Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(C)), ``sexual orientation'' (Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(D)), and ``gender identity'' (Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(E)). To ensure consistency with our adoption of USCDI 
v3, we finalized the name change of the certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(a)(5) from ``demographics'' to ``patient demographics and 
observations'' due to the inclusion of data elements based on clinical 
observations.
    Additionally, in the HTI-1 Final Rule, we finalized the replacement 
of the specific concepts referenced in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(D) and 
(E), sexual orientation and gender identity, respectively, with the 
SNOMED Clinical Terms U.S. Edition (SNOMED CT[supreg]) U.S. Edition 
code set, as referenced in the standard in Sec.  170.207(o)(3). In

[[Page 60981]]

Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(C), sex, we finalized adoption that a Health IT 
Module enable sex to be recorded in accordance with the standard 
specified in Sec.  170.207(n)(1) for the period up to and including 
December 31, 2025; or Sec.  170.207(n)(2). The standards specified in 
Sec.  170.207(n)(1) (sex) require that birth sex must be coded in 
accordance with HL7[supreg] Version 3 Standard, Value Sets for 
AdministrativeGender and NullFlavor, up until the adoption of this 
standard expires January 1, 2026, attributed as follows: (i) Male. M; 
(ii) Female. F; (iii) Unknown. NullFlavor UNK. The code sets referenced 
in Sec.  170.207(n)(1), as cross-referenced in Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(C), would expire on January 1, 2026, but we also 
stated that health IT developers could continue to use the specific 
codes referenced in Sec.  170.207(n)(1) through December 31, 2025, to 
provide adequate time for Health IT Modules certified to the relevant 
certification criteria to transition to the updated terminology 
standards. Lastly, we finalized the addition of ``sex parameter for 
clinical use'' as a new data element in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(F), 
``name to use'' in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(G), and ``pronouns'' in Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(H).
    After publication of the HTI-1 Final Rule and our adoption of the 
revisions in Sec.  170.315(a)(5), we began exercising enforcement 
discretion and issued certification guidance for the Certification 
Program regarding Health IT Module conformance with certain data 
elements in the patient demographics and observations certification 
criterion.\14\ In our enforcement discretion notice, we explained that 
Sec.  170.550 requires an ONC-ACB, when certifying Health IT Modules, 
to certify in accordance with the applicable certification criteria 
adopted in regulation. Under this enforcement discretion and 
certification guidance, we noted that ASTP/ONC will not take any 
enforcement action under Sec.  170.565 against an ONC-ACB based on non-
compliance with Sec.  170.550 for certifying a Health IT Module that is 
presented for certification to the patient demographics and 
observations certification criterion (Sec.  170.315(a)(5)) where the 
Health IT Module does not demonstrate conformance with any or all of 
the following data and observations in paragraph (a)(5)(i): sex 
parameter for clinical use, sexual orientation, gender identity, name 
to use, and pronouns; or does not demonstrate conformance with any or 
all of data and observations in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(D) through (H). 
We also stated that ASTP/ONC will not take action against Health IT 
Modules certifying or currently certified to the patient demographics 
and observations certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(a)(5) that 
only demonstrate, for conformance with paragraph (a)(5)(i)(C) (sex), 
that it can record sex in accordance with either the standard specified 
in Sec.  170.207(n)(1) for the period up to and including December 31, 
2025, or the SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition codes found in the standard 
specified in Sec.  170.207(n)(2): 248152002 Female (finding) and 
248153007 Male (finding).\15\ We noted that we would not exercise our 
direct review authority under Sec.  170.580 for any non-conformity, 
potential or actual, that arises solely from a Health IT Module not 
demonstrating the capabilities specified in our enforcement discretion 
notice. We stated that the enforcement discretion and certification 
guidance will remain in effect for 12 months from the date of the 
notice or until the Department completes a regulatory action to revise 
the applicable regulations, whichever comes first.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \14\ USCDI v3 Data Elements Enforcement Discretion [verbar] 
https://www.healthit.gov/topic/uscdi-v3-data-elements-enforcement-discretion-notice.
    \15\ https://www.healthit.gov/test-method/patient-demographics-and-observations.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have reviewed the requirements in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i) and 
have determined that removal of certain requirements in Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i) would result in burden reduction for health IT 
developers and cost savings associated with the (1) enforcement 
discretion and (2) ongoing maintenance costs affected by the proposed 
updates to the certification criterion. Accordingly, for these reasons 
and reasons discussed below, we propose the following revisions to 
Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i).
    We propose to revise Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(C) to remove the 
reference to the standard in Sec.  170.207(n)(1) (HL7 Administrative 
Gender and NullFlavor). As discussed above, in the HTI-1 Final Rule, we 
finalized that the adoption of the code sets referenced in Sec.  
170.207(n)(1) will expire on January 1, 2026. Beginning January 1, 
2026, a Health IT Module certified to Sec.  170.315(a)(5) is required 
to demonstrate, for conformance with paragraph (a)(5)(i)(C), that it 
can record sex in accordance with the SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition 
codes found in the standard specified in Sec.  170.207(n)(2). Given the 
timing of publication of this proposed rule, the reference to Sec.  
170.207(n)(1) in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(C) is outdated and no longer 
relevant. Therefore, we propose to remove the cross-reference to Sec.  
170.207(n)(1) in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(C) because retaining the 
reference may cause confusion for interested parties. Our proposed 
revision would keep the cross-reference to Sec.  170.207(n)(2) in Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(C). We propose that to demonstrate conformance with 
Sec.  170.315(a)(5), a Health IT Module would only need to demonstrate 
that it can record sex in accordance with either the 248152002 Female 
(finding) or 248153007 Male (finding) SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition 
codes found in the standard specified in Sec.  170.207(n)(2). A Health 
IT Module would not need to demonstrate that it can record sex with any 
other code found in SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition.
    We have reviewed and evaluated the data elements in Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(D) through (H) for consistency with our overall 
deregulatory approach, and we have determined that it is no longer 
necessary to include the paragraphs specified in Sec.  
170.315(a)(5)(i)(D) through (H) (i.e., patient observations data) as 
part of the Certification Program. As part of this evaluation, we 
considered the general statutory requirement of the Qualified EHR 
definition (further implemented with the ``Base EHR'' definition in 
Sec.  170.102) to capture patient demographics, which neither 
identifies demographic data elements nor requires certain demographic 
elements to be included in the definition. The removal of these 
elements would reduce burden by narrowing how many data elements are 
required for purposes of certification to the criterion and for meeting 
the Base EHR definition. This would produce cost savings for developers 
regulated under the Certification Program. Health IT developers would 
no longer need to support these data elements as part of the voluntary 
certification process including not only for initial certification but 
also for ongoing maintenance requirements over time. In this regard, we 
invite readers to review section VIII (Regulatory Impact Analysis) for 
a detailed discussion of our estimated impacts and cost savings 
associated with our proposed revisions in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i). In 
addition, the observational data elements proposed for removal do not 
support the meeting of specific measures under the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category, and therefore, are not essential for inclusion in 
certified health IT that is used to meet the CEHRT definitions and 
support meeting measures under those programs. Lastly, we note that the 
proposed removal of the data elements in Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i)(D) 
through (H) aligns with our proposal

[[Page 60982]]

related to the removal of data elements from USCDI v3 and reflected in 
proposed USCDI v3.1 (see section III.B.1).
    We propose a conforming name change of the certification criterion 
from ``patient demographics and observations'' to ``patient 
demographics.'' This revision is not a substantive change to 
certification requirements, but would return the certification 
criterion's naming convention to as it was prior to the HTI-1 Final 
Rule, as well as acknowledge that the data described in Sec.  
170.315(a)(5) is understood to be demographic information. We note that 
our proposed revisions are limited to Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(i), and we do 
not propose to revise the ``inpatient setting only'' requirements in 
Sec.  170.315(a)(5)(ii). We welcome comments on these proposals.
b. Clinical Decision Support
    We propose to remove the ``clinical decision support'' (CDS) 
certification criterion and reserve Sec.  170.315(a)(9).
    In 2012, we established a new set of requirements for Health IT 
Modules to support CDS. These requirements included capabilities to 
support evidence-based CDS based on a defined set of data elements; CDS 
configuration for both inpatient and ambulatory settings; and the 
display of source attribute or bibliographic citation of CDS (77 FR 
54212). In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we finalized an updated CDS 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(a)(9) (80 FR 62622). In the 
HTI-1 Proposed Rule, we noted our belief that the continued evolution 
of decision support software, especially as it relates to AI or machine 
learning-driven Predictive DSIs, necessitates new requirements for the 
Certification Program's CDS certification criterion (88 FR 23781).
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we finalized an expiration date of January 
1, 2025, for the CDS certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(a)(9) and 
incorporate certain policies with modifications in the ``decision 
support intervention'' certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(11) 
(89 FR 1237). We finalized a conforming expiration date for the CDS 
certification criterion in the Base EHR definition in Sec.  170.102. We 
noted that no action is required for developers relating to the 
expiration of Sec.  170.315(a)(9) in the Base EHR. However, we also 
noted that developers with Health IT Modules certified to Sec.  
170.315(a)(9) wishing to maintain certification to the Base EHR 
definition, needed to update to the DSI certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(11) by December 31, 2024.
    As of January 1, 2025, the CDS certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(a)(9) is no longer available in the Certification Program. 
Therefore, we propose to remove and reserve Sec.  170.315(a)(9). This 
proposal would be effective upon the effective date of a subsequent 
final rule. We welcome feedback on this proposal.
c. Family Health History
    We propose to remove the ``family health history'' certification 
criterion and reserve Sec.  170.315(a)(12). Health IT Modules certified 
to Sec.  170.315(a)(12) must enable a user to record, change, and 
access a patient's family health history in accordance with the 
familial concepts or expressions included in, at a minimum, the version 
of the standard in Sec.  170.207(a)(1) (SNOMED CT[supreg], U.S. 
Edition, March 2022 Release). This certification criterion is not 
included in the Base EHR definition but is included in the CEHRT 
definitions established by CMS for the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program (42 CFR 495.4) and the MIPS Promoting 
Interoperability performance category (42 CFR 414.1305).
    We adopted the family health history certification criterion in the 
2015 Edition Final Rule as a revised iteration of the 2014 Edition 
family health history certification criterion adopted in Sec.  
170.314(a)(13) (80 FR 62624). In the 2014 Edition Proposed Rule, we 
proposed the first iteration of the family health history certification 
criterion to align with a Meaningful Use Stage 2 proposal (77 FR 
13838). We solicited comment on whether we should adopt the HL7 
Pedigree standard and/or the Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine--
Clinical Terms (SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition) terms for familial 
conditions. We also sought comment on a tool produced by the HHS Office 
of the Surgeon General for capturing family health histories. In the 
2014 Edition Final Rule, we finalized a certification criterion that 
required, at a minimum, that health IT must enable a user to record, 
change, and access information about a patient's first degree relative 
within the said patient's record (see also 77 FR 54174). We also 
finalized that health IT certified to Sec.  170.314(a)(13) could meet 
this certification criterion by either being able to capture a 
patient's family health history in SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition or in 
the HL7 Pedigree standard. We noted that because the use of SNOMED 
CT[supreg] U.S. Edition was required for meeting several other 
certification criteria, it would not be a challenge to meet the 
certification criterion. In the 2015 Edition Proposed Rule, we proposed 
two separate certification criteria for family health history--one 
based on functionality according to the SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition 
standard and one based on functionality according to the HL7 Pedigree 
standard (80 FR 16822 through 16823). However, we only adopted the 
family health history certification criterion (Sec.  170.315(a)(12)) 
based on SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition, stating that the functionality 
should be available to providers for more comprehensive patient care 
(80 FR 62624).
    In light of our overall deregulatory approach, we have determined 
that we should remove the family health history certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(a)(12). The functionality of this certification 
criterion has been part of the Certification Program and associated 
with the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program and the MIPS 
Promoting Interoperability performance category (including prior 
iterations such as the EHR Incentives Programs and the CEHRT 
definitions) for over 12 years. As such, the functionality is embedded 
in certified health IT and has been widely adopted by hospitals and 
physicians due to participation in those programs.\16\ Further, similar 
to what we stated when we adopted the certification criterion, the 
ability to code to SNOMED[supreg] CT U.S. Edition (including the entire 
adopted version) is required to meet many of the remaining 
certification criteria, including those referencing the USCDI v3 and 
those criteria that would include the proposed USCDI v3.1 standard.\17\ 
These certification criteria included criteria that are in the Base EHR 
definition and not proposed for removal in this proposed rule. 
Therefore, we expect that many developers of certified health IT will 
still conform to the SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. Edition and the 
functionality to code family health history with SNOMED CT[supreg] U.S. 
Edition will remain in certified health IT adopted by hospitals and 
physicians. Moreover, USCDI v6 includes a new Family Health History 
data element.\18\ We note that health IT developers can use the SVAP to 
voluntarily implement and become certified using the most recent 
National Coordinator-approved version of USCDI without waiting for 
ASTP/ONC to require that newer version via rulemaking (85 FR 25669). 
While USCDI v6 has not been adopted in regulation at

[[Page 60983]]

this time, our expectations, as with every prior version of USCDI, are 
that USCDI v6 would go through the SVAP approval process and be 
approved for SVAP certification in 2026.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \16\ https://www.healthit.gov/data/quickstats/national-trends-hospital-and-physician-adoption-electronic-health-records.
    \17\ We discuss USCDI v3.1 in section III.B.1.
    \18\ https://www.healthit.gov/isp/united-states-core-data-interoperability-uscdi#draft-uscdi-v6.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    As noted above, the family health history certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(a)(12) is included in the CEHRT definitions. 
Therefore, to provide sufficient time for CMS to update the CEHRT 
definitions to remove reference to the certification criterion, we 
propose a January 1, 2027, effective date for the removal of this 
certification criterion. We welcome comments on these proposals.
d. Implantable Device List
    We propose to remove and reserve the ``implantable device list'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(a)(14). The implantable device 
list certification criterion requires Health IT Modules certified to 
Sec.  170.315(a)(14) to exchange, record, and allow a user to access a 
list of Unique Device Identifiers (UDIs) associated with a patient's 
implantable devices. There is no adopted standard or implementation 
guide associated with this functionality. However, the implantable 
device list certification criterion is included in the Base EHR 
definition, and we propose a conforming revision in Sec.  170.102 to 
remove Sec.  170.315(a)(14) from the Base EHR definition (please see 
section III.C.1 of this proposed rule).
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we adopted Sec.  170.315(a)(14) 
with the purpose of establishing a baseline functionality to support 
the exchange and use of UDIs in certified health IT (80 FR 62748). We 
explained that the need to exchange and have access to this information 
wherever patients seek care is broadly relevant to all clinical users 
of health IT, regardless of setting or specialty, so that they may know 
what devices their patients are using (or have used) and thereby 
prevent device-related adverse events and deliver safe and effective 
care (80 FR 62625 through 62627). We also stated that this need is most 
acute for implantable devices, which by their nature are difficult to 
detect and identify in the absence of reliable clinical documentation.
    We acknowledged the challenges of fully implementing UDIs in health 
IT in the 2015 Edition Final Rule, yet believed our adoption of the 
certification criterion, as well as including the certification 
criterion in the 2015 Base EHR definition and a UDI data element in the 
2015 CCDS definition, were important steps to support electronic 
exchange and use of UDIs (80 FR 62625 through 62626). In responding to 
comments on the 2015 Edition Proposed Rule, we recognized that fully 
implementing UDIs in health IT will take time and require addressing a 
number of challenges, so we adopted a certification criterion that 
focused narrowly on baseline health IT capabilities that developers 
could feasibly implement. We stated that these capabilities would 
provide the foundation for broader adoption and more advanced 
capabilities and use cases. This approach minimized the potential 
burden while maximizing the impact of this certification criterion for 
all stakeholders.
    We have reviewed the implantable device list certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(a)(14) and, as explained below, have 
determined that we have achieved our policy goals associated with the 
exchange and use of UDIs. In consideration of this outcome and our 
overall regulatory goals to reduce burden and offer flexibility to both 
health IT developers and health care providers, we propose to remove 
the implantable device list certification criterion and reserve Sec.  
170.315(a)(14).
    First, we have achieved our stated policy goal of broad adoption of 
Sec.  170.315(a)(14). As we explained in prior rulemakings, we believe 
in a foundational approach as the first step to broader adoption of 
health IT capabilities (80 FR 16824, 80 FR 62626). We added the 
implantable device list certification criterion to the 2015 Edition 
Base EHR definition in the 2015 Edition Final Rule. The Base EHR 
definition (2015 Edition and subsequent versions) is part of the CEHRT 
definitions under the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program and 
the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category.\19\ As such, 
health care providers participating in these programs are required to 
adopt health IT certified to the implantable device list certification 
criterion. As discussed earlier in this preamble, survey data indicates 
widespread adoption by hospitals and physicians of certified health IT 
products meeting the Base EHR definition, which includes Health IT 
Modules certified to the implantable device list certification 
criterion.\20\ The widespread adoption of the implantable device list 
functionality is now well-established in health IT products, and we do 
not believe that removing the certification criterion from the 
Certification Program will result in health IT developers removing the 
functionality from their products, which would likely be both a costly 
endeavor and counter to the interests of their customers (i.e., 
hospitals and physicians).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \19\ 42 CFR 495.4 and 42 CFR 414.130.
    \20\ https://www.healthit.gov/data/quickstats/national-trends-hospital-and-physician-adoption-electronic-health-records.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Second, our proposed removal of the implantable device list 
certification criterion would reduce burden and costs. We have 
historically, where feasible and appropriate, taken measures to reduce 
burden within the Certification Program and make the Certification 
Program more effective, flexible, and streamlined. We believe our 
proposal to remove the implantable device list certification criterion 
would result in reduced burden, increased flexibility, and cost 
savings. Developers of certified heath IT would have the flexibility to 
implement those functionalities supporting the exchange and use of UDIs 
that best meet the needs of their clients without additional regulatory 
burden, which could also lead to innovations in these and related 
functionalities.
    Third, support for UDIs within certified health IT is incorporated 
into other Certification Program elements besides the implantable 
device list certification criterion. For example, UDIs are a required 
data element in USCDI v3, and the proposed USCDI v3.1 standard, as the 
``Unique Device Identifier(s) for a patient's implantable device(s)'' 
data element. We believe retaining a functional data capture 
certification criterion that requires the same information as the USCDI 
v3 standard supports (as part of key criteria enabling health 
information exchange) would be duplicative and unnecessary (we refer 
readers to section III.B.1 of this proposed rule for a discussion on 
the proposed USCDI v3.1).
    We also note that in USCDI v6, published in July 2025, we adopted a 
significantly modified definition of the UDI data element to include 
non-implantable devices.\21\ Health IT developers can use SVAP to 
voluntarily implement and become certified using the most recent 
National Coordinator-approved version of USCDI without waiting for ONC 
to require that newer version via rulemaking (85 FR 25669). While USCDI 
v6 has not been adopted in regulation at this time, our expectations, 
as with every prior version of USCDI, are that USCDI v6 would go 
through the SVAP approval process and be approved for SVAP 
certification in 2026.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \21\ https://www.healthit.gov/isp/united-states-core-data-interoperability-uscdi#draft-uscdi-v6.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Therefore, we believe that some health IT developers may choose to 
voluntarily update relevant certified Health IT Modules to utilize 
USCDI v6

[[Page 60984]]

with the modified definition of the UDI data element. Such actions 
would provide for new data exchange capabilities to expand beyond the 
baseline functionality in Sec.  170.315(a)(14). This proposal, if 
finalized, would be effective as of the effective date of a subsequent 
final rule. We welcome comments on this proposal.
2. Care Coordination Certification Criteria
a. Transitions of Care
    We propose to revise the ``transitions of care'' certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(1) to simplify its requirements, with an 
effective date of January 1, 2027. We propose to reduce the scope of 
the criterion to focus on enabling the receipt of a Consolidated CDA 
(C-CDA) document as a way to position this criterion for a future 
evolution to receipt of FHIR-formatted data. The transitions of care 
criterion supports the structured transition of care summaries and 
referral summaries that help ensure continuity and care coordination as 
patients move between providers. In the 2014 Edition Final Rule, we 
finalized adoption of the C-CDA standard for this criterion because it 
accommodated formatting of a summary care record that included all of 
the data elements that CMS proposed be available for inclusion in a 
summary care record (77 FR 54217). We also stressed that an EHR 
technology's ability to incorporate data for medications, medication 
allergies, and problems in structured form from a C-CDA document was 
the minimum necessary to meet this certification criterion and 
encouraged EHR technology developers to go beyond this minimum (77 FR 
54219). Additionally, in the 2014 Edition Final Rule we included Sec.  
170.315(b)(1) in the Base EHR definition (77 FR 54265).
    In the Cures Act Final Rule, we updated the transitions of care 
criterion's data requirements to include USCDI v1 (85 FR 25667), and in 
the HTI-1 Final Rule we updated the data requirements to include USCDI 
v3 (89 FR 1298). We note that the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(1) is currently associated with several measures under the 
Health Information Exchange Objective of the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category. Specifically, the certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(1) is specified as required for the Support Electronic 
Referral Loops by Sending Health Information and Support Electronic 
Referral Loops by Receiving and Reconciling Health Information measures 
and specified as an example of a criterion that may be used to support 
the actions of the Health Information Exchange (HIE) Bi-directional 
Exchange and Enabling Exchange under TEFCA measures.\22\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \22\ See the ``Medicare and Medicaid Programs; CY 2026 Payment 
Policies Under the Physician Fee Schedule and Other Changes to Part 
B Payment and Coverage Policies; Medicare Shared Savings Program 
Requirements; and Medicare Prescription Drug Inflation Rebate 
Program'' (CY 2026 PFS) Proposed Rule (90 FR 32352) Table 62, 
available at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-13271/p-3055andtheFY2026IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule (90 FR 36536) Table X.F.-05 
available at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-14681/p-4161.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have reviewed and evaluated the transitions of care 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(1) in order to identify 
ways to reduce burden while still supporting our policy goals. As we 
noted in the S&CC January 2010 Interim Final Rule, we take an iterative 
approach to addressing the interoperability of health IT and consider 
factors such as maturity, market prevalence, and complexity of 
implementation to inform our adoption of standards and certification 
criteria (75 FR 2020). Our approach then and now is intended to be 
``pragmatic, but forward looking'' and involves sustainable and 
incremental steps to harmonize current and future standards, as well as 
phase out standards and certification criteria when needed (75 FR 
2021).
    Several industry trends have led us to propose revising this 
certification criterion. First, FHIR supports the functionalities of a 
contemporary web-based architecture, using technologies such as RESTful 
APIs, JSON, and XML, making the standard more approachable to software 
developers and enabling easier integration with web-based and mobile 
applications than the C-CDA standard. Second, FHIR is a more granular 
data standard, enabling exchange of more discrete data concepts rather 
than entire documents. C-CDA is a document-centric standard that does 
not support retrieval of information at the data element level, which 
can lead to information overload during transitions of care. Finally, 
we believe that FHIR supports easier scalability to support real-time 
data exchange, which will support a broader ecosystem of health IT 
tools than C-CDA. Various capabilities, such as CDS Hooks, 
Subscriptions, and SMART Health Links, support new interoperability 
paradigms that are much more difficult to do using C-CDA. These trends 
notwithstanding, we remain cognizant that the C-CDA standard is widely 
adopted, and we anticipate its continued use over the near-term, 
especially for transitions of care among health care delivery settings, 
such as in-patient and long-term and post-acute care.
    In detail, we propose to revise the transitions of care 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(1) as of January 1, 2027. 
We propose to remove the requirements in Sec.  170.315(b)(1)(i) ``send 
and receive via edge protocol'' and in Sec.  170.315(b)(1)(iii) 
``create'' and to simplify the requirements in Sec.  170.315(b)(1)(ii) 
``validate and display'' to focus on the ability to receive and 
validate C-CDA documents. We propose to remove the requirements in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(1)(ii)(B) and (C). We also propose to move the 
requirements in Sec.  170.315(b)(1)(ii)(A) ``validate C-CDA 
conformance--system performance'' to Sec.  170.315(b)(1)(i) and to 
rename Sec.  170.315(b)(1) to read ``transitions of care--receive and 
validate.'' Additionally, in Sec.  170.315(b)(1)(ii)(A) we propose to 
remove the references to Sec.  170.205(a)(3) and to replace the 
references to Sec.  170.205(a)(5), which expires on January 1, 2026, 
with references to Sec.  170.205(a)(6). We welcome feedback on these 
proposals.
b. Clinical Information Reconciliation and Incorporation
    We propose to remove the ``clinical information reconciliation and 
incorporation'' certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(2) with an 
effective date of January 1, 2027, and to reserve that section. The 
clinical information reconciliation and incorporation (CIRI) 
certification criterion allows health care providers to reconcile and 
incorporate patient health information sent from external sources to 
maintain a more accurate and up-to-date patient record. The CIRI 
certification criterion is not currently included in the Base EHR 
definition; however, the criterion is required for the Support 
Electronic Referral Loops by Receiving and Reconciling Health 
Information measure and specified as an example of a criterion that may 
be used to support the actions of the HIE Bi-Directional Exchange and 
Enabling Exchange under TEFCA measures in the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category.\23\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \23\ See the CY 2026 PFS Proposed Rule Table 62, available at 
https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-13271/p-3055andtheFY2026IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule Table X.F.-05 available at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-14681/p-4161.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Our requirements for CIRI in the Certification Program were first 
established in the S&CC January 2010 Interim Final Rule to enable a 
user to

[[Page 60985]]

electronically complete medication reconciliation of two or more 
medication lists (75 FR 2046). In the 2011 Edition Final Rule, we 
revised the certification criterion to require that Certified EHR 
Technology be capable of providing a user with the ability to 
electronically compare two or more medication lists (75 FR 44613). We 
expanded these requirements in the 2014 Edition Final Rule to require 
clinical information reconciliation for problems, medications, and 
medication allergies (77 FR 54289). In the 2014 Edition Release 2 Final 
Rule, we added incorporation requirements and adopted the updated CIRI 
certification criterion as an optional 2014 Edition certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.314(b)(9) (79 FR 54438). In the 2015 Edition 
Final Rule, we finalized a revised 2015 Edition CIRI certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(2) (80 FR 62749), and we updated the 
related C-CDA standards for the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(2) in both the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25677) and the 
HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1224).
    We have reviewed and evaluated the CIRI certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(2), seeking to identify ways to reduce burden while 
still supporting our policy goals. As we have stressed in prior 
rulemaking, we take an incremental approach to improving health IT 
interoperability and performance, relying on factors such as market 
prevalence and industry readiness to harmonize current and future 
standards and phase out standards and certification criteria as needed 
(75 FR 2020). Our review of industry adoption of the CIRI certification 
criterion indicates widespread adoption. Review also indicates that its 
capabilities are widely implemented and used in health IT at this time 
and thus not likely to go away as supported capabilities by developers 
of certified health IT solely on the basis of removal of the criterion 
from the Certification Program \24\ (see section III.A for a discussion 
on ``widely adopted'' and ``widely implemented''). We also have seen 
indications that removing the certification criterion from the 
Certification Program could spur greater development and innovation in 
this area. In conversations with developers and implementers, we have 
seen technology that innovates on CIRI, providing functionality beyond 
Certification Program requirements that supports direct incorporation 
of information received from trusted sources.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \24\ Real World Testing results (accessible via https://chpl.healthit.gov/) for 2024 from three large EHR developers with 
significant market share in the United States attest to routine 
clinician use of Clinical Information Reconciliation and 
Incorporation (Sec.  170.315(b)(2)): Epic customers reconciled 66 
million medications, 7 million allergies, and 40 million problems 
out of 135 million transition of care CCDs received; Oracle Health 
clinicians added ~491 k and rejected 2.69 million external 
medications per month, evidencing active review; and MEDITECH's 
Expanse product processed 17 million CCD Retrieve Document Set 
exchanges with a 99.67% success rate. Given that Epic, Oracle 
(Cerner), and MEDITECH together provide the majority of EHR systems 
used in the U.S., these findings indicate that CIRI capabilities are 
broadly adopted and meaningfully used in clinical care.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have concluded that removing the CIRI certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(2) would reduce burden for health IT developers, such 
as testing and other burden associated with certification to this 
criterion, while still allowing ASTP/ONC to achieve our policy goals of 
supporting interoperability and access to quality EHI at the point of 
care. Additionally, we believe that removing this C-CDA-based 
certification criterion from the Certification Program would encourage 
movement toward FHIR-based standards which can further spur innovation 
and development in this area, improving interoperability and patient 
care. Because the certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(2) is a 
requirement for Promoting Interoperability measures, we believe a 
transition date for removal is needed. We propose a January 1, 2027, 
effective date for the removal of the CIRI certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(2). We welcome feedback on these proposals.
c. Security Tags--Summary of Care
    We propose to remove the ``security tags--summary of care--send'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(7) and the ``security 
tags--summary of care--receive'' certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(8) and reserve those sections. Together, these certification 
criteria support the application and persistence of security labels for 
document-based exchange. The security tags--summary of care--send 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(7) enables a user to create 
a summary record that is tagged as restricted and subject to 
restrictions on re-disclosure, while the security tags--summary of 
care--receive certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(8) enables a 
user to receive a summary record that is tagged as restricted and 
subject to restrictions on re-disclosure. These criteria are not 
currently included in the Base EHR definition.
    The certification criteria in Sec.  170.315(b)(7) and (b)(8) were 
originally adopted in the 2015 Edition Final Rule as ``data 
segmentation for privacy'' (DS4P) certification criteria and only 
required security tagging of C-CDA documents at the document level (80 
FR 62646 and 62647). In the Cures Act Final Rule, we updated the 
requirements to support security tagging of C-CDA documents at the 
document, section, and entry levels (85 FR 25646).
    We have reviewed the security tags--summary of care--send 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(7) and the security tags--
summary of care--receive certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(8), evaluating how to reduce burden while still addressing 
policy priorities to support privacy protections in information 
exchange. As we have stated previously in this proposed rule, we 
consider factors such as market prevalence and the uptake in 
implementation of criteria by developers of health IT when making 
revisions to Certification Program certification criteria. Currently, 
35 unique Health IT Modules are certified to the criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(7), and 36 unique Health IT Modules are certified to the 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(8), out of a total of 707 active and non-
suspended certifications listed on the Certified Health IT Product List 
(CHPL), a comprehensive listing of all certified health IT successfully 
tested and certified under the Certification Program.\25\ We believe 
that in this case the low number of Health IT Modules certified to 
these criteria indicate that the criteria may not be of sufficient 
value to health IT developers to warrant continued inclusion in the 
Certification Program. Additionally, as the industry moves toward 
greater use of FHIR-based standards, the removal of these C-CDA-based 
criteria in the Certification Program would help spur further 
innovation and advancement in this area.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \25\ https://chpl.healthit.gov/ search conducted June 2025.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have concluded that removing the certification criteria in Sec.  
170.315(b)(7) and (8) would reduce burden for health IT developers and 
health care providers while still supporting our policy goals to 
support privacy protections in information exchange. We propose to 
remove the security tags--summary of care--send certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(b)(7) and the security tags--summary of care--receive 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(8) as of the effective date 
of a final rule. We welcome feedback on these proposals.
d. Care Plan
    We propose to remove the ``care plan'' certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(9) and reserve that section. This criterion

[[Page 60986]]

helps improve coordination of care by providing a structured format for 
documenting patient information such as goals, health concerns, health 
status evaluations, and interventions. The criterion is not currently 
included in the Base EHR definition. The certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(9) was first adopted in the 2015 Edition Final Rule 
and required a Health IT Module to enable a user to record, change, 
access, create, and receive care plan information in accordance with 
the C-CDA Release 2.1 standard in Sec.  170.205(a)(4) (80 FR 62648). We 
updated the criterion in the Cures Act Final Rule to also require the 
HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA Templates for Clinical 
Notes R2.1 Companion Guide, Release 2 standard in Sec.  170.205(a)(5) 
(85 FR 25943). In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we updated the criterion to 
require the HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA Templates 
for Clinical Notes R2.1 Companion Guide, Release 2 standard in Sec.  
170.205(a)(5) for the time period up to and including December 31, 
2025, or the C-CDA Companion Guide Release 4.1 standard in Sec.  
170.205(a)(6) (89 FR 1224).
    We have evaluated the care plan certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(9) with a goal of reducing burden on health IT developers 
and health care providers while still achieving our policy priorities. 
Currently, 54 unique Health IT Modules are certified to the criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(b)(9) out of a total of 707 active and non-suspended 
certifications listed on the CHPL. We believe this may indicate low 
interest by health IT developers in certifying to this criterion.\26\ 
As discussed previously in this proposed rule, the industry is moving 
away from C-CDA-based standards to the use of FHIR-based standards that 
offer greater flexibility and potential for innovation. ASTP/ONC 
recently highlighted the development of FHIR-based care plan IGs, 
including the Multiple Chronic Condition eCare Plan and the Electronic 
Long Term Services & Support Care Plan IGs, in a January 2025 standards 
bulletin.\27\ Additionally, input from industry has indicated that the 
care plan document type is less frequently adopted than other C-CDA 
document types, and where it is utilized, health IT developers are not 
likely to cease supporting the functionality if the criterion is 
removed from the Certification Program.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \26\ https://chpl.healthit.gov/ search conducted June 2025.
    \27\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/standardsbulletin_25-1.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have concluded that removing the certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(9) would reduce burden for health IT developers and 
health care providers while still supporting our goals. Additionally, 
as discussed previously, moving away from C-CDA-based requirements in 
the Certification Program would help promote greater innovation and 
advancement in this area. We propose to remove the care plan 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(9) as of the effective date 
of a final rule. We welcome feedback on these proposals.
e. Decision Support Interventions
    We propose to revise the ``decision support interventions'' (DSI) 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(11). The DSI certification 
criterion ensures that users can leverage health IT for clinical 
decision-making by supporting their selection of both evidence-based 
and predictive DSIs and enabling users' access to transparent 
information on DSI performance and quality. In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we 
adopted the DSI certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(11) as both 
an update and replacement criterion for the CDS certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(a)(9) (89 FR 1236). We also added Sec.  170.315(b)(11) 
to the Base EHR definition in the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1197). When 
we finalized the DSI certification criterion in the HTI-1 Final Rule, 
we cited E.O. 14091 on Further Advancing Racial Equity and Support for 
Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government (February 16, 
2023), which addressed bias in AI, and E.O. 14110 on Safe, Secure, and 
Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence (October 30, 
2023), which addressed the risks of AI (89 FR 1232). These EOs were 
revoked in E.O. 14148 on Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive 
Orders and Actions (January 20, 2025).
    We have reviewed and evaluated the DSI certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(11), focusing on ways to reduce burden while still 
supporting our policy priorities. As we have noted previously in this 
proposed rule and in prior rulemakings, we consider factors such as 
standards maturity, market adoption, and complexity of implementation 
when adopting, revising, or phasing out standards and certification 
criteria (75 FR 2020). Currently, the requirements in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11) reference data expressed in the USCDI standards in Sec.  
170.213. We have received feedback from developers of certified health 
IT that requiring support of predictive DSIs that use any data element 
in one of the USCDI standards in Sec.  170.213 has proven burdensome 
and costly to implement, with questionable value. While many USCDI data 
elements are routinely used in decision support and would be important 
inputs to predictive DSI, other USCDI data elements, such as phone 
number and phone number type data elements, are not likely to be used 
as inputs.
    We propose to revise the DSI certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11) as detailed below as of the effective date of a 
subsequent final rule. We propose to remove the requirement in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(ii)(B) to enable interventions when a patient's 
medications, allergies and intolerance, and problems are incorporated 
from a transition of care or referral summary received and pursuant to 
paragraph Sec.  170.315(b)(2)(iii)(D). As described above in section 
III.A.2.b, we propose to remove Sec.  170.315(b)(2), which is a C-CDA-
based criterion, from the Certification Program completely as of 
January 1, 2027. Thus, we propose to remove the requirement in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(ii)(B), which references Sec.  170.315(b)(2), as well. 
We also propose to redesignate the certification criterion currently in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(ii)(C) as Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(ii)(B).
    We propose to remove the parenthetical reference in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(iii) to ``drug-drug and drug-allergy contraindication 
checking'' upon the effective date of a final rule. We have retained 
the ``drug-drug, drug-allergy interaction checks for CPOE'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(a)(4), and in order to 
simplify overall Certification Program requirements, we do not believe 
it is necessary to reference this capability as part of decision 
support functionality in Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(iii). We note that this 
reference was initially included as part of the revisions made to the 
Certification Program's decision support certification criterion (then 
referenced in Sec.  170.314(a)(8)) in 2012 (see 77 FR 54215). Since 
this time, the Certification Program has taken deliberate actions to 
support a more modular marketplace for health IT (see 84 FR 7428, 89 FR 
63567 through 63568, and 90 FR 37158). Removal of this specified 
capability within Sec.  170.315(b)(11) to support drug-drug and drug-
allergy contraindication checking furthers this goal of modularity 
without precluding support for such interaction checks, due to the 
retention of requirements in Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(iii)(A)(2) and (3) 
regarding enabling evidence-based DSIs that include ``Medications'' and

[[Page 60987]]

``Allergies and Intolerances,'' respectively, as data types.
    Additionally, we propose to revise the requirements in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(iii)(B), which currently relate to enabling predictive 
DSIs that use any data expressed in the standards in Sec.  170.213, to 
limit the application of the certification criterion to just data 
expressed in Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(iii)(A) as well as data expressed in 
the Clinical Notes and the Assessment and Plan of Treatment data 
classes in the standards in Sec.  170.213. While we originally wanted 
to apply the requirements of this certification criterion to any data 
expressed in the standards in Sec.  170.213 in order to reflect our 
focus on the USCDI and the variety of data for which DSIs may be 
enabled, we believe a number of USCDI data elements are not likely to 
be used as inputs, as mentioned above. We believe that revising the 
requirements to focus on fewer data elements would significantly reduce 
burden for health IT developers without diminishing users' ability to 
select (i.e., activate) a wide variety of predictive DSIs that use 
remaining USCDI data elements as inputs.
    Finally, we propose to remove the requirements in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(iv) and (v) regarding source attribute support, access, 
and modification and in Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(vi) regarding intervention 
risk management for predictive DSIs. In addition to reducing burden, 
removal of these requirements would comply with E.O. 14179 on Removing 
Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (January 23, 
2025). E.O. 14179 calls for the review of regulations and other actions 
taken pursuant to revoked E.O. 14110, and any actions taken that are 
inconsistent with the policy set forth in E.O. 14179 to ``sustain and 
enhance America's global AI dominance in order to promote human 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security'' \28\ 
shall be suspended, revised, or rescinded as appropriate and consistent 
with applicable law.\29\ Despite proposing source attribute information 
transparency and intervention risk management more than six months 
prior to issuance of E.O. 14110,\30\ we note that many of our 
fundamental assumptions and objectives were aligned with the stated 
goals of E.O. 14110 to advance ``safe, secure, and trustworthy 
development and use of artificial intelligence.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \28\ https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-02172/p-3.
    \29\ Federal Register: Removing Barriers to American Leadership 
in Artificial Intelligence (90 FR 8741).
    \30\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/04/18/2023-07229/health-data-technology-and-interoperability-certification-program-updates-algorithm-transparency-and.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Additionally, we note several factors supporting the proposal to 
modify the DSI certification criterion. First, developers of certified 
health IT have reported that during care delivery, most clinical users 
lack the time or technical background to engage with source attribute 
information for either evidence-based DSIs or predictive DSIs supplied 
by the developer of certified health IT.\31\ Despite having access to 
source attribute information since the beginning of 2025, when Health 
IT Modules certified to Sec.  170.315(b)(11) began to be first 
deployed, we have no publicly available evidence indicating that a 
single doctor, nurse, or administrator has accessed, recorded, or 
modified a single source attribute. Further, we have no publicly 
available evidence that transparency requirements in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11) have led to positive impacts on patient care, such as 
removing deficient or untested algorithms, or testing a deployed 
algorithm on local data. We believe that the underlying assumption that 
source attribute information would be valuable to health care delivery 
organizations and health care professionals when deciding whether to 
implement or use a DSI (as stated in the HTI-1 Final Rule) \32\ was 
incorrect.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \31\ See letter to Acting Assistant Secretary for Technology 
Policy, Acting National Coordinator for Health Information 
Technology Posnack, April 16, 20215: https://www.ehra.org/sites/ehra.org/files/EHR%20Association%20Letter%20to%20ASTP-ONC%20-%20Certification%20Program%20Deregulatory%20Suggestions.pdf#page=7.
    \32\ See 88 FR 23780 at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2023-07229/p-547.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Second, transparency regarding how a predictive or generative AI 
application was designed, developed, tested, evaluated, and should be 
used may not have the savings and benefits we anticipated. As described 
in the regulatory impact analysis (RIA) to the HTI-1 Final Rule, we 
estimated considerable benefits from this policy (89 FR 1411), noting 
that transparency into AI applications would result in health care 
delivery organizations selecting and using more accurate AI 
applications. We quantified associated benefits for two illustrative 
cases, sepsis detection and ambulatory care sensitive admissions (89 FR 
1412 through 1414), estimating that our policies would result in a 10-
year savings of up to $3 billion for the sepsis use case through 
increased application of more sensitive predictive models for this 
condition. We have not encountered supporting evidence or published 
research indicating that source attribute transparency requirements in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(iv) have improved health care delivery 
organizations' evaluation and effective use of AI. We understand that 
the benefits articulated in the HTI-1 Final Rule impact analysis are 
not being realized.
    Third, developers of certified health IT have reported an 
inconsistent approach to oversight of other parties producing similar, 
health-based AI systems.\33\ They note that ``[t]he current model of 
imposing rigorous requirements [(i.e., algorithmic transparency and 
risk management)] on certified health IT but not the many other tech 
companies working in this space is simply unacceptable and needs to be 
remedied.'' \34\ While we attempted to encourage more consistent and 
ubiquitous transparency requirements across similar applications in our 
April 2023 proposals for predictive DSI in the HTI-1 Proposed Rule (88 
FR 23782), and have worked with federal partners on alignment with 
similar policy objectives since finalization of the HTI-1 Final Rule in 
January 2024,35 36 we acknowledge that our authorities have 
limitations that inhibit our collective efforts to treat similar 
technologies similarly under a single Department-wide policy.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \33\ https://www.ehra.org/sites/ehra.org/files/EHR%20Association%20Letter%20to%20ASTP-ONC%20-%20Certification%20Program%20Deregulatory%20Suggestions.pdf#page=7.
    \34\ Ibid.
    \35\ See 89 FR 1264 for discussion of alignment with FDA 
policies.
    \36\ See 89 FR 37643 for discussion of alignment with OCR 
policies.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Finally, in order to promote innovation of AI in health care, we 
propose to remove transparency and risk management requirements 
established in the HTI-1 Final Rule. Additionally, we have heard from 
health IT developers that the requirements are burdensome and 
detrimental to such innovation and growth, which is the opposite of our 
stated policy intent to optimize the ubiquitous use of high-quality AI 
in health care.
    For these and the aforementioned reasons, we propose to remove all 
requirements related to source attributes in Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(iv), 
their access in Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(v)(A), and their modification in 
Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(v)(B), as well as requirements to manage risks 
related to the development and deployment of predictive DSIs supplied 
by health IT developers as part of their product in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(vi). We welcome comments on these proposals.

[[Page 60988]]

3. Clinical Quality Measures Certification Criteria
a. Clinical Quality Measures--Report
    We propose to revise the ``clinical quality measures--report'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(c)(3) as of the effective date 
of a final rule. We propose to remove the requirement in Sec.  
170.315(c)(3)(ii), as this provision may no longer be used to support 
certification to the criterion. In the Cures Act Interim Final Rule, we 
revised Sec.  170.315(c)(3) to include a corrected compliance 
transition timeline for the criterion in Sec.  170.315(c)(3)(ii), which 
specified the use of standards in Sec.  170.205(h)(2) and in Sec.  
170.205(k)(1) and (2), for the period before December 31, 2022 (85 FR 
70075, 70083). We propose to remove paragraph Sec.  170.315(c)(3)(ii) 
because that transition time period has elapsed. We also propose to 
move the requirements in Sec.  170.315(c)(3)(i) to Sec.  170.315(c)(3), 
thus removing all subparagraphs and including all criterion 
requirements in the main paragraph for Sec.  170.315(c)(3). We welcome 
comments on our proposal.
b. Clinical Quality Measures--Filter
    We propose to remove the ``clinical quality measures--filter'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(c)(4) with an effective date 
of January 1, 2027. This certification criterion assesses whether a 
Health IT Module can filter quality data based on a set of standardized 
data elements for electronic clinical quality measures (eCQM) 
calculated using certified health IT.
    In the Voluntary Edition Proposed Rule, we proposed a new 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(c)(4) that would require 
health IT to record structured data allowing CQM results to be grouped 
by patient characteristics (79 FR 10903 and 10904).\37\ We proposed 
this capability to support eCQM reporting by group practice or 
accountable care organization (ACO). We also proposed capturing patient 
characteristics that support identification of health disparities, that 
help providers identify gaps in quality, and that support delivery of 
specialized care to needful patient subgroups. We did not adopt this 
certification criterion in the 2014 Edition Release 2 Final Rule as we 
received comments recommending refinement of the use cases and 
performance of more analysis on which data elements are being captured 
in standardized ways (79 FR 54462).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \37\ Practice site and address; Tax Identification Number (TIN), 
National Provider Identifier (NPI), and TIN/NPI combination; 
diagnosis; primary and secondary health insurance, including 
identification of Medicare and Medicaid dual eligible; demographics 
including age, sex, preferred language, education level, and 
socioeconomic status.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In the 2015 Edition Proposed Rule (80 FR 16844) we proposed to add 
Sec.  170.315(c)(4) as a new certification criterion for CQM filtering 
based on the rationale that health IT should support an organization's 
ability to filter individual and aggregate eCQM results in ways that 
support administrative reporting, identification of health disparities, 
and identification of gaps in care.
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we adopted the ``CQMs--filter'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(c)(4), along with three other 
CQM certification criteria: ``CQMs--record and export'' (Sec.  
170.315(c)(1)), ``CQMs--import and calculate'' (Sec.  170.315(c)(2)), 
and ``CQMs--report'' (Sec.  170.315(c)(3)) (80 FR 62649 through 62655). 
Together, these four criteria were adopted to support providers' 
quality improvement activities and to support reporting to programs 
such as the EHR Incentive Programs, Quality Payment Program, and 
Comprehensive Primary Care plus initiative.
    The 2015 Edition Final Rule adopted Sec.  170.315(c)(4) as a new 
2015 Edition certification criterion that supports the capability of a 
clinician to filter eCQM results using data captured for quality 
improvement and quality reporting purposes. We finalized that Health IT 
Modules certified to Sec.  170.315(c)(4) must be able to: record data 
and filter CQM results at both patient and aggregate levels; filter by 
any combination of the data elements established as part of the 
criterion with associated vocabulary standards; create a data file of 
the filtered data in accordance with the QRDA Category I and Category 
III standards; and display the filtered data in a human readable 
format.
    This certification criterion is not included in the Base EHR 
definition in Sec.  170.102 but is included in the CEHRT definition for 
MIPS in 42 CFR 414.1305 as an optional criterion. While we recognize 
the value of this functionality, we propose to remove this criterion 
for multiple reasons. We reviewed and evaluated existing regulations to 
identify deregulatory actions that would reduce administrative burden, 
and the private expenditures required for compliance with federal 
regulations. We have identified that the administrative costs of 
certification for the CQMs--filter certification criterion are no 
longer offset by the benefits of advancing the specific functionality 
supported by the criterion. Further, we do not believe that quality 
measure filtering functionality would be removed from health IT systems 
because of our proposal to remove this criterion.
    Quality reporting programs, such as those required by states and 
CMS programs, require broader supplemental data and capabilities beyond 
what we currently require for certification. In addition, health IT 
developers have widely implemented technology solutions that expand 
beyond the baseline requirements of the certification criterion (see 
section III.A for a discussion on ``widely implemented''). Through 
listening sessions with a wide range of health care provider types and 
sites of service, public correspondence, and CHPL data, we understand 
that the use of the CQMs--filter certified functionality is fairly low 
relative to the other certification criteria that support clinical 
quality measure capabilities. According to CHPL data, as of August 
2025, there are 340 active Health IT Modules certified to Sec.  
170.315(c)(1), (2), or (3), but only 71 active Health IT Modules 
certified to Sec.  170.315(c)(4). Among the feedback we have received, 
health care providers participating in CMS alternative payment models, 
as well as health IT developers supporting quality initiatives, have 
reported that they have different options to filter eCQM results, 
including using customized systems and/or the support of third parties 
to support innovative, specialty-specific quality measurement and 
reporting tailored to their particular needs. We therefore believe the 
value of maintaining this certification criterion is minimal as health 
IT developer time and resources would be better spent on quality data 
system modernization efforts leveraging FHIR-based APIs for quality 
data exchange.
    We therefore propose to remove the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(c)(4) as of January 1, 2027.
4. Privacy and Security Certification Criteria
    We propose to remove all the privacy and security certification 
criteria in Sec.  170.315(d) and the associated Privacy and Security 
Certification Framework under Sec.  170.550(h) as of the effective date 
of a subsequent final rule.
    We first adopted a version of the privacy and security 
certification criteria currently found in Sec.  170.315(d) (and 
associated standards) in the 2011 Edition through an interim final rule 
(75 FR 2033 through 2035). These certification criteria originated from 
HIT Policy Committee and HIT Standards Committee recommendations. The

[[Page 60989]]

criteria generally focused on basic technical capabilities that could 
be included in the development of Health IT Modules that would be 
certified. We used the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
Act of 1996 (HIPAA) Security Rule (45 CFR 164 parts 160 and 164, 
subparts A and C) as the starting point for the Certification Program's 
privacy and security certification criteria, with the intent of 
ensuring that Certified EHR Technology (now referred to as ``certified 
health IT'') included at least one capability to assist a HIPAA covered 
entity with complying with HIPAA Security Rule requirements. The 
initial criteria also included a certification criterion (``accounting 
of disclosures'') to support entities regulated under HIPAA that must 
provide an accounting of disclosures of protected health information 
\38\ made in certain circumstances.\39\ We noted, however, that the 
interim final rule strictly focused on the capabilities of Certified 
EHR Technology and did not change existing HIPAA Privacy Rule or 
Security Rule requirements, guarantee compliance with those 
requirements, or absolve an eligible professional, eligible hospital or 
other health care provider from having to comply with any applicable 
provision of the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules. In addition, we 
stated that, while the capabilities provided by Certified EHR 
Technology may assist an eligible professional, eligible hospital in 
improving their technical safeguards, the use of Certified EHR 
Technology alone does not equate to compliance with the HIPAA Privacy 
or Security Rules. We stated that the capabilities provided by 
Certified EHR Technology do not in any way affect the analysis that an 
entity regulated by HIPAA is required to perform by 45 CFR 164.306(b) 
and (d) (75 FR 2035).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \38\ 45 CFR 160.103 (definition of ``protected health 
information'').
    \39\ 42 U.S.C. 17935(c), sec. 13405(c) of the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Public Law 111-5, 123 Stat. 265 (Feb. 
17, 2009); 45 CFR 164.528.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    With the 2014 Edition, we included the privacy and security 
certification criteria in the Base EHR definition in an attempt to 
provide both developers and health care providers more flexibility in 
meeting Certification Program requirements, while still providing 
health care providers with basic technical options that could support 
compliance with parts of the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules (77 FR 
54265). Based on recommendations from the HIT Standards Committee, we 
established a third privacy and security certification approach under 
Sec.  170.550(h) for the new 2015 Edition so that each certification 
criterion also had a set of separate privacy and security certification 
criteria attributed to them that were applicable to the criterion's 
functionality (80 FR 62705 through 62707). In doing so, we established 
the current Privacy and Security Certification Framework, which has 
been in place for the past 10 years. Under this framework, health IT 
developers have two options for meeting requirements: build the 
capabilities themselves natively into their certified health IT; or 
provide system documentation to demonstrate that the certified health 
IT could integrate (via service interfaces) with required privacy and 
security capabilities (80 FR 62707).
    We have come to the conclusion that, despite the Certification 
Program providing various certification flexibilities and approaches to 
accommodate the privacy and security certification criteria (i.e., 
different approaches for the 2011, 2014 and 2015 Editions), the costs 
and burden of these Certification Program requirements far exceed their 
intended purpose and benefits.
    First, we have found that health IT developers have changed their 
development processes to build in privacy and security capabilities to 
meet these certification requirements rather than attempting to 
demonstrate that their technology could interface with other health IT 
that provides these capabilities. This has led to negative experiences 
for health care providers who have sought to use a best-of-breed, non-
certified security technology to work across their deployed enterprise 
(e.g., a third-party audit log).
    Second, as certified health IT (which is generally EHR-focused 
technology) is often implemented in enterprise-wide settings (e.g., 
group practices, large health care systems, multi-provider cloud-
supported services), such certified health IT cannot in isolation, or 
independently, provide the necessary privacy and security capabilities 
for HIPAA Security Rule compliance across all relevant technologies of 
the enterprise-wide setting.
    Third, while certified health IT has always been ``linked'' to the 
Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting 
Interoperability performance category, those programs have not required 
participating health care providers to use or implement the privacy and 
security capabilities included in certified health IT for purposes of 
meeting the security risk analysis measure. Rather, the health care 
providers must ``have'' such certified health IT. As such and as 
discussed in more detail below, health care providers participating in 
the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program or the MIPS Promoting 
Interoperability performance category are required to adopt certified 
capabilities that they may not use because, for example, they may 
prefer a non-certified security health IT product to meet their overall 
security needs under relevant HIPAA Security Rule requirements.
    Fourth, many stakeholders have overinterpreted the Certification 
Program's limited scope and policy purpose with respect to health IT 
security and instead assumed that the Certification Program assessed 
discrete specific security capabilities at significant depths, such as 
when and how the capabilities are implemented in health care provider 
or system settings. For example, stakeholders have expressed incorrect 
expectations of certified health IT and developers, such as 
expectations that the Certification Program required health IT 
developers of certified health IT to implement and conduct penetration 
testing of certified health IT or ensure that certified authentication 
and authorization capabilities protect against known or unknown 
vulnerabilities. In contrast, and to allow for significant scalable 
deployment flexibility, certified heath IT must only, for example, 
demonstrate support for basic authentication and role-based access 
control.
    Finally, there remains a disconnect between health IT certified to 
the privacy and security certification criteria under the Certification 
Program and the implementation and compliance responsibilities of most 
purchasers and users of certified health IT with the HIPAA Privacy and 
Security Rule requirements. This disconnect has led to the introduction 
of unnecessary regulatory burden and duplication, as well as 
unwarranted opportunity costs for innovation. As we noted above and in 
our rulemakings related to the privacy and security certification 
criteria, the adoption of health IT certified to the privacy and 
security certification criteria does not guarantee compliance with the 
HIPAA Privacy and Security Rule requirements. Further, the adoption of 
health IT certified to the privacy and security certification criteria 
does not serve as an affirmative defense, has not been identified as a 
mitigating factor in assessing HIPAA civil money penalties, and does 
not exempt a HIPAA-regulated entity from having to comply with any 
applicable provision of the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules. These 
facts alone have created unnecessary burden for health care providers 
that adopt

[[Page 60990]]

certified health IT and health IT developers of certified health IT 
that also meet the definition of a covered entity or business 
associate, respectively, and are subject to the HIPAA Privacy and 
Security Rules.\40\ In fact, we have heard from stakeholders both 
arguing that our certification requirements go beyond the HIPAA 
Security Rule requirements (75 FR 44619, 80 FR 62707) or do not go far 
enough in meeting HIPAA Privacy Rule and Security Rule requirements (80 
FR 62691, 62706). As such, our Certification Program requirements are 
diverting financial resources and efforts from innovative, agile, and 
comprehensive solutions that can address the threats faced by health 
care providers and meet their regulatory obligations under the HIPAA 
Privacy and Security Rules. By removing the privacy and security 
certification requirements under the Certification Program, we will 
provide health IT developers with the flexibility to innovate in this 
area and to develop new solutions to address the needs of their 
customers. Such an approach should also spur competition and give 
health care providers, including small practices, the opportunity to 
choose the best privacy and security technologies that fit their needs 
at the best price versus being forced to accept those capabilities 
included in certified health IT that may not fit their health 
information privacy and security needs for various reasons.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \40\ 45 CFR 160.103 (definitions of ``covered entity'' and 
``business associate'').
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We will continue to collaborate with our colleagues in HHS to 
promote privacy and security and to strengthen the nation's critical 
health care infrastructure. Equally, we are not completely foregoing 
the adoption of privacy and security capabilities within the 
Certification Program. Instead, going forward, we intend to prioritize 
the adoption of privacy and security capabilities that are fit for 
purpose, use case specific, and deliver much needed technical 
consistency in the market when paired with specific conformance 
requirements. For example, as we pursue more API-focused certification 
criteria, if the standards and implementation guides adopted for them 
do not specify or leave optional specific security requirements, we may 
look to add further constraints (e.g., multi-factor authentication 
support). But in all cases, we intend to make security capability 
conformance a built-in part of a certification criterion's conformance 
and not the separate and stand-alone conformance assessment that it is 
today. With this planned approach in mind, we also request comment on 
an alternative proposal as discussed below.
    In lieu of removing, on the effective date of a subsequent final 
rule, all of the privacy and security certification criteria in Sec.  
170.315(d) and the associated Privacy and Security Certification 
Framework under Sec.  170.550(h), we would retain the ``auditable 
events and tamper resistance'' (Sec.  170.315(d)(2)), ``audit 
report(s)'' (Sec.  170.315(d)(2)), and ``auditing actions on health 
information'' (Sec.  170.315(d)(10)) certification criteria and 
associated Privacy and Security Certification Framework certification 
requirements. These certification criteria and included functionality 
may serve to help identify fraud and abuse. The functionality may also 
support health care provider compliance obligations and investigations 
by relevant entities, including both civil and criminal matters at the 
federal and state levels. Identifying and addressing fraud and abuse 
increases confidence in the nation's health care system, reduces 
inappropriate and wasteful spending, and protects taxpayer dollars when 
it comes to government spending on health care.
    We welcome feedback on these proposals.
5. Patient Engagement Certification Criteria
a. View, Download, and Transmit to a 3rd Party
    We propose to revise the ``view, download, and transmit to 3rd 
party'' (VDT) certification criterion in three ways as described below. 
These proposed revisions, if finalized, would be effective as of the 
effective date of a subsequent final rule.
    We first included the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 
2.0) standard as a requirement of the view, download, and transmit to 
3rd party (VDT) certification criterion (Sec.  170.315(e)(1)) in the 
2014 Edition. Specifically, the VDT certification criterion viewing 
capability required conformance to WCAG Level A (77 FR 54179). This 
provided an accessibility baseline for health IT certified to the 
criterion. With the 2015 Edition, we proposed compliance with WCAG 
Level AA (as we did for the 2014 Edition) but finalized a policy that 
gave developers the option of demonstrating conformance with either 
Level A or Level AA to meet the certification requirements (80 FR 
62660).
    We now propose to remove the WCAG conformance requirement from the 
certification criterion (found in Sec.  170.315(e)(1)(i)). As noted 
above, the WCAG baseline certification standard of Level A was adopted 
with the 2014 Edition in 2012 and has been part of the VDT 
certification criterion since that time. The functionality is now 
sufficiently widespread among certified health IT and health care 
providers who adopt such technology. This is true because the VDT 
certification criterion has been part of the CEHRT definitions and 
specifically supports the patient access measure under the Medicare 
Promoting Interoperability Program and MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category since the 2014 Edition. By removing the WCAG 
certification requirement, health IT developers of health IT currently 
certified to Sec.  170.315(e)(1) will have the opportunity to consider 
other innovative ways to provide patients with the viewing 
functionality. To this point, commenters noted in response to the 2014 
Edition WCAG proposals that most patients want functions and content 
provided in a more visually appealing manner than the WCAG standard 
allows. Further, as we noted in the 2011 Edition Interim Final Rule and 
again in response to comments on the 2011 Edition Interim Final Rule, 
in providing patients with access to their online health information, 
the accessibility requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act 
of 1990 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 still apply 
to entities covered by these federal civil rights laws (75 FR 2036, 75 
FR 44643). In addition, Section 1557 of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act) prohibits covered entities 
from subjecting individuals to certain forms of discrimination, 
including on the grounds prohibited by Section 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act, in any health program or activity.\41\ Health IT 
developers and other health programs or activities who receive Federal 
financial assistance under the Certification Program or other federal 
programs likely qualify as covered entities \42\ under Section 1557 and 
would be required to comply with applicable accessibility requirements. 
Under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, recipients of financial 
assistance from HHS must conform to certain accessibility requirements, 
including but not limited to using the WCAG 2.1

[[Page 60991]]

AA success criteria for web content and mobile applications, as 
detailed in 45 CFR 84.82 through 84.89. Additionally, under Section 508 
of the Rehabilitation Act (Pub. L. 93-112; Sep. 26, 1973), HHS must 
ensure the information and communication technology it develops, 
procures, maintains, or uses, allows comparable access and use for 
people with disabilities, including by conforming to the success 
criteria of WCAG 2.0 AA. See 29 U.S.C. 794d; 36 CFR part 1194. As such, 
we expect health IT developers will continue to meet these requirements 
and provide the necessary accessibility within their products certified 
to the VDT certification criterion.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \41\ https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-45/part-92#p-92.4(Health%20program%20or%20activity).
    \42\ https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-45/part-92#p-92.4(Covered%20entity).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We also propose to remove the VDT requirement in Sec.  
170.315(e)(1)(ii)(A)(2) to conform with any Network Time Protocol (NTP) 
standard for purposes of ``date and time each action occurred'' under 
the activity log. In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we revised the requirement 
from conformance with the Network Time Protocol v4 of the RFC 5905 
standard to compliance with any Network Time Protocol standard (89 FR 
1283; Sec.  170.210(g)). As a result, health IT could be certified by 
demonstrating that it could use any NTP to synchronize clocks for time 
accuracy. However, we have received feedback over the years from 
developers stating that the requirement should not be part of 
certification because the functionality was not native to the EHR 
technology (rather part of the operating system within which the EHR 
technology runs) and was unnecessary for certification because EHRs use 
of underlying operating system clocks is commonplace (88 FR 23811). 
Consistent with our overall goal to reduce regulatory burden, we agree 
that there is currently little value, and unnecessary burden, in 
maintaining the conformance requirement as part of certification. We do 
not expect that developers will stop using NTP with their certified 
health IT. Rather, we expect that developers will continue to use NTPs, 
such as Microsoft's MS-SNTP, due to ongoing evolution in the industry.
    We propose to remove and reserve Sec.  170.315(e)(1)(i)(A)(1) 
because the requirement has an expiration date of December 31, 2025, 
which expires by the time a subsequent final rule will be issued. 
Additionally, we similarly propose to revise Sec.  
170.315(e)(1)(i)(B)(1) and (2) to remove references to Sec.  
170.205(a)(5) because the standard codified in this paragraph also has 
an expiration date of December 31, 2025. Finally, we propose to provide 
a heading for the paragraph at Sec.  170.315(e)(1)(i), which would be 
``general.'' This would align the paragraph with similar level 
paragraphs that have headings (Sec.  170.315(e)(1)(ii) and (iii)) and 
would be compliant with the Office of the Federal Register Drafting 
Handbook.
    We welcome comments on these proposals.
b. Patient Health Information Capture
    We propose to remove the ``patient health information capture'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(e)(3) with an effective date 
of January 1, 2027, and to reserve that section. The patient health 
information capture certification criterion allows health care 
providers to incorporate unstructured patient generated health data or 
data from a non-clinical setting into a patient record. The criterion 
is not currently included in the Base EHR definition; however, the 
criterion is included in CEHRT definitions established by CMS for the 
Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program (42 CFR 495.4) and the MIPS 
Promoting Interoperability performance category (42 CFR 414.1305).
    The patient health information capture certification criterion was 
first adopted in the 2015 Edition Health IT Certification Criteria, 
2015 Edition Base Electronic Health Record (EHR) Definition, and ONC 
Health IT Certification Program Modifications Final Rule (80 FR 62602). 
The criterion replaced the Sec.  170.314(a)(17) advance directives and 
applied to various patient health information documents (80 FR 62661). 
In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we stated that a Health IT Module would 
need to enable a user to: (1) identify (e.g., label health information 
documents as advance directives and birth plans), record (capture and 
store) and access (ability to examine or review) patient health 
information documents; (2) reference and link to patient health 
information documents; and (3) record and access information directly 
and electronically shared by a patient. This criterion was specifically 
included in the CEHRTdefinition to ensure, at a minimum, providers 
participating in the EHR Incentive Programs (now the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category) had this capability.
    The intent of the criterion is to establish at least one means for 
accepting patient health information directly and electronically from 
patients in the most flexible manner possible (80 FR 62662). The 
criterion did not define the types of health information that could be 
accepted as we believed it should be as broad as possible and could be 
documents or health information from devices or applications. The 
devices and applications could include home health or personal health 
monitoring devices, fitness and nutrition applications, or a variety of 
other devices and applications. In addition, patient health information 
could be accepted directly and electronically through a patient portal, 
an API, or even email (80 FR 62662). As adopted, we anticipated health 
IT developers would develop innovative and efficient ways to meet this 
criterion and simultaneously support providers accepting health 
information from patients.
    We have reviewed and evaluated the patient health information 
capture certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(e)(3), seeking to 
identify ways to reduce burden while still supporting our policy goals. 
As we have stressed in prior rulemaking, we take an incremental 
approach to improving health IT interoperability and performance, 
relying on factors such as market prevalence and industry readiness to 
harmonize current and future standards and phase out standards and 
certification criteria as needed (75 FR 2021). Our review of industry 
adoption of the patient health information capture certification 
criterion has found that the capabilities described in the criterion 
are widely implemented (as discussed above in section III.A) and used 
in health IT at this time, suggesting that these capabilities will 
remain in health IT products even if the corresponding criterion is 
removed from the Certification Program. We also have seen indications 
that removing the criterion from the Certification Program could spur 
greater development and innovation in this area.
    We have concluded that removing the patient health information 
capture certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(e)(3) on January 1, 
2027, would reduce administrative burden as well as burden for health 
IT developers of certified health IT and health care providers while 
still allowing us to achieve our policy goals. There are other 
certification criteria that support patient engagement, such as the 
2015 Edition view, download, and transmit to 3rd party and ``API'' 
certification criteria. We have seen developers integrate the 
functionality in the patient health information capture certification 
criterion as part of other patient engagement features, such as patient 
portals. With these considerations in mind, we believe removing this 
criterion from the Certification Program will help reduce burden and 
costs, while also spurring further innovations

[[Page 60992]]

in patient engagement. Because the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(e)(3) is a requirement for CEHRT definitions established by 
CMS, we believe a transition date is needed. Therefore, we propose to 
remove the patient health information capture certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(e)(3) effective January 1, 2027. We welcome feedback 
on this proposal.
6. Public Health Certification Criteria
a. Transmission to Cancer Registries
    We propose to remove the ``transmission to cancer registries'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(4) with an effective date 
of January 1, 2027, and reserve that section. This criterion assesses 
whether a Health IT Module can properly create and format cancer case 
information for electronic transmission according to a CDA-based 
implementation specification for reporting to public health agencies. 
In the 2014 Edition Final Rule, we expanded the public health-related 
standards and certification criteria to include a criterion for 
transmission to cancer registries in Sec.  170.314(f)(6) that we 
designated as optional for Complete EHR certification (77 FR 54195). We 
stated that we proposed this criterion to support a new meaningful use 
objective and measure for reporting cancer cases to cancer registries 
(77 FR 54194). In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we finalized a revised 
transmission to cancer registries criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(4) 
which was no longer labeled as optional and required updated standards 
(80 FR 62666), and in the HTI-1 Final Rule we further updated the 
associated vocabulary standards (89 FR 1208). The standards currently 
referenced in the criterion include the Health Level 7 (HL7[supreg]) 
Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: Reporting to Public 
Health Cancer Registries from Ambulatory Healthcare Providers, Release 
1, DSTU Release 1.1, April 2015 in Sec.  170.205(i)(2), the SNOMED 
CT[supreg], U.S. Edition, March 2022 Release in Sec.  170.207(a)(1), 
and the Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC[supreg]) 
Database Version 2.72, February 16, 2022 in Sec.  170.207(c)(1). In the 
Meaningful Use Stage 3 Final Rule, the transmission to cancer 
registries certification criterion was identified as one of the 
criteria that eligible professionals could utilize to report the Public 
Health Registry measure in the EHR Incentive Programs (80 FR 62882). 
Subsequently, CMS stated that this criterion could be used to report on 
the Public Health Registry measure that was included in the MIPS 
Advancing Care Information performance category (later renamed the MIPS 
Promoting Interoperability performance category) (81 FR 77236). 
Currently, MIPS eligible clinicians that report on the Public Health 
Registry measure may earn optional bonus points for submitting this 
data.\43\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \43\ See the CY 2026 PFS Proposed Rule Table 60, available at 
https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-13271/page-32744.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have reviewed and evaluated the transmission to cancer 
registries certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(4), seeking to 
identify ways to reduce burden while still supporting our policy goals. 
We recognize trends within the industry that support removal of this 
criterion. Of note, there is specific work being done to move cancer 
registry reporting from CDA to FHIR through the Helios FHIR Accelerator 
and updates to the Central Cancer Registry Reporting IG in support of 
more efficient tumor abstract completion and supportive harmonization 
and standardization of data elements through USCDI+ Cancer.\44\ Given 
the movement toward these promising modernization efforts that rely on 
FHIR rather than CDA, we anticipate health IT developers will find 
maintaining CDA development support to be both duplicative and a 
significant burden.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \44\ https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-central-cancer-registry-reporting-ig/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We believe that removing the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(f)(4) would reduce burden and encourage the ongoing evolution 
in cancer registry reporting by offering health IT developers space to 
move toward FHIR standards and modern reporting solutions, further 
encouraging innovation. We propose a January 1, 2027, effective date 
for the removal of the transmission to cancer registries certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(4). We welcome feedback on these 
proposals.
b. Transmission to Public Health Agencies--Electronic Case Reporting
    We propose to revise the ``transmission to public health agencies--
electronic case reporting'' (eCR) certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(f)(5). This criterion enables a user to create case reports 
that can be transmitted electronically to public health agencies. In 
the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we included a new certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(f)(5) with functional requirements to support the 
electronic transmission of case reporting information to public health 
agencies (80 FR 62667). When we originally proposed this criterion, we 
highlighted several goals, including linking EHR data with other data 
in a structured way in order to improve quality, safety, population 
health, and research, as well as making case reporting from providers 
to public health agencies more efficient (80 FR 16855). In the 2015 
Edition Final Rule, we noted commenter concerns with the proposed 
standards and recommendations that case reporting continue as a public 
health reporting option for the EHR Incentive Programs, but without a 
requirement to use a particular standard (80 FR 62667). We further 
noted ongoing advancements in FHIR standards and stated that in order 
to permit flexibility and accommodate evolution, we would not finalize 
a required standard (80 FR 62667).
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we finalized a policy to require support 
for either a FHIR or CDA standard in order to provide technical design 
flexibility while still supporting the existing CDA-based landscape, 
and we established a transition period from functional requirements to 
standards-based requirements (89 FR 1227). Specifically, we finalized 
requirements in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(ii) to create case reports 
consistent with either the HL7 FHIR eCR IG in Sec.  170.205(t)(1) or 
the HL7 CDA eICR IG in Sec.  170.205(t)(2), and to receive, consume, 
and process a case report response formatted to either the HL7 FHIR eCR 
IG in Sec.  170.205(t)(1) or the HL7 CDA RR IG in Sec.  170.205(t)(3) 
(89 FR 1227). We stated that we would continue monitoring the 
development of standards for case reporting, and that as FHIR-based 
standards advanced we intended to transition solely to a FHIR-based 
approach for case reporting in future rulemaking (89 FR 1227). We also 
stated in the HTI-1 Final Rule, in response to comments that technology 
used by public health agencies may not be able to accept incoming FHIR-
based reports, that we understood commenters' ``concerns related to 
performance, scalability, and maintenance, and will monitor standards 
development and implementation to inform future rulemaking'' (89 FR 
1229).
    Consistent with E.O. 14192, ASTP/ONC published the ``Electronic 
Case Reporting Certification Criterion Enforcement Discretion Notice'' 
on July 31, 2025.\45\ The enforcement discretion notice stated that for 
calendar year 2025, ASTP/ONC will not exercise its direct review 
authority for any non-conformity arising solely from certified health 
IT not complying with the standards in Sec.  170.315(f)(5) as long as 
the health IT

[[Page 60993]]

remains conformant with either Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(i) or with 
requirements in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(ii) as specified in the notice. The 
requirements in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(ii) specified in the enforcement 
discretion notice include requirements to: consume and process case 
reporting trigger codes and identify a reportable patient visit or 
encounter based on a match with a trigger code value set (e.g., table); 
create a case report; receive, consume, and process a case report 
response; and, transmit a case report electronically to a system 
capable of receiving a case report. Additionally, the enforcement 
discretion notice stated that for calendar year 2025, ASTP/ONC will not 
take any enforcement action against an ONC-ACB for certifying a Health 
IT Module that is presented for certification to Sec.  170.315(f)(5) 
where the Health IT Module demonstrates and maintains conformance with 
Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(i) or the requirements in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(ii) 
as specified above. For calendar year 2026, the enforcement discretion 
notice stated that ASTP/ONC will not exercise its direct review 
authority for any non-conformity arising solely from certified health 
IT not complying with the standards in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(ii) as long 
as the health IT remains conformant with the requirements in Sec.  
170.315(f)(5)(ii) as specified above. The enforcement discretion notice 
also stated that for calendar year 2026, ASTP/ONC will not take any 
enforcement action against an ONC-ACB for certifying a Health IT Module 
that is presented for certification to Sec.  170.315(f)(5) where the 
Health IT Module demonstrates and maintains conformance to the 
requirements in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(ii) as specified above. The 
enforcement discretion notice stated that it remains in effect until 
December 31, 2026, or until the Department completes a deregulatory 
action to revise Sec.  170.315(f)(5).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \45\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/electronic-case-reporting-certification-criterion-enforcement-discretion-notice.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have reviewed and evaluated the transmission to public health 
agencies--electronic case reporting certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(f)(5) with a focus on reducing burden while still supporting 
our policy priorities. We understand from developers of certified 
health IT that there may be issues with readiness to adopt these 
standards as well as concerns regarding the performance, scalability, 
or maintenance of these standards. We also note that the Sec.  
170.315(f)(5) certification criterion is required to complete the 
Electronic Case Reporting measure in the MIPS Promoting 
Interoperability performance category and the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program.\46\ We note that in the CY 2026 PFS Final 
Rule, CMS finalized a policy to suppress the measure for performance 
for MIPS eligible clinicians meeting the requirements of the MIPS 
Promoting Interoperability performance category for the CY 2025 
performance period, and eligible hospitals and CAHs participating in 
the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program for the EHR reporting 
period in CY 2025 (90 FR 49892).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \46\ See the CY 2026 PFS Proposed Rule Table 62, available at 
https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-13271/p-3055 and the FY2026 
IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule Table X.F.-05 available at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-14681/p-4161.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We propose to revise the eCR certification criterion to be a 
functional requirement in order to reduce burden and allow for industry 
innovation. In particular, we propose to rescind the expiration date 
for the functional requirements defined in Sec.  170.315(f)(5) as of 
the effective date of a subsequent final rule. We propose to revise the 
introductory text of the criterion to enable a user to create a case 
report for electronic transmission meeting the functional requirements 
described in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section. Additionally, we 
propose to remove the standards-based requirements defined in Sec.  
170.315(f)(5)(ii) as of the effective date of a subsequent final rule 
and reserve that section. We welcome feedback on these proposals.
c. Transmission to Public Health Agencies--Antimicrobial Use and 
Resistance Reporting
    We propose to revise the ``transmission to public health agencies--
antimicrobial use and resistance reporting'' certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(f)(6). This criterion assesses whether Health IT Modules 
can create and properly format an antimicrobial use and resistance 
report for electronic transmission, following specified sections of a 
CDA-based implementation guide. In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we 
expanded the public health-related standards and certification criteria 
to include a new criterion for transmission of antimicrobial use and 
resistance reporting data to public health registries (80 FR 62668). We 
stated in the 2015 Edition Final Rule that the antimicrobial use and 
resistance reporting data is only collected by CDC rather than at the 
jurisdictional level (80 FR 62668). The transmission to public health 
agencies--antimicrobial use and resistance reporting certification 
criterion currently references the Health Level 7 (HL7[supreg]) 
Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2--Level 3: Healthcare 
Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 1, U.S. Realm, August 2013 
standard in Sec.  170.205(r)(1) and only requires conformance to 
certain sections of the implementation guide. The Sec.  170.315(f)(6) 
certification criterion is required for completing the Antimicrobial 
Use Surveillance and Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance measures in 
the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program for eligible hospitals 
and CAHs.\47\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \47\ See the FY2026 IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule Table X.F.-05 
available at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-14681/p-4161.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have reviewed and evaluated the transmission to public health 
agencies--antimicrobial use and resistance reporting certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(6) with a focus on achieving burden 
reduction while still supporting our policy goals. We have identified 
trends within the industry regarding a shift in reporting approach that 
supports revision of this criterion.\48\ As CDC works to move reporting 
to FHIR-based standards,\49\ we believe maintaining an outdated CDA-
based standard in the criterion would impose regulatory burden on 
health IT developers that are seeking to support FHIR-based approaches 
to reporting. We propose to revise the criterion requirements to be 
functional only and remove the reference to the standard in Sec.  
170.205(r)(1) as of the effective date of a subsequent final rule. This 
would reduce administrative and development burden by allowing progress 
in line with other use cases, the use of more recent standards, and 
modern approaches to reporting. We note that, as with other criteria 
that include solely functional requirements, use of a specific standard 
would not be required to meet the proposed requirements of the 
criterion.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \48\ https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/
118849#:~:text=July%2027%2C%202021,2021%20Export%20RIS%20Citation%20I
nformation.
    \49\ For information on CDC's National Healthcare Safety Network 
(NHSN) antimicrobial use and resistance reporting options see 
https://www.cdc.gov/nhsn/psc/aur/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We believe that revising the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(f)(6) to functional requirements only would reduce burden and 
allow for standards advancement and adoption of FHIR-based reporting to 
move more quickly. We welcome feedback on these proposals.
d. Transmission to Public Health Agencies--Health Care Surveys
    We propose to remove the ``transmission to public health agencies--
health care surveys''

[[Page 60994]]

certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(7) with an effective date 
of January 1, 2027. This criterion supports the transmission of health 
care surveys directly to the CDC. In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we 
expanded the public health-related standards and certification criteria 
to include a new criterion for transmission of health care surveys to 
public health agencies (80 FR 62669). We clarified in the 2015 Edition 
Final Rule that the finalized implementation guide for this criterion 
is intended for the transmission of survey data for both the National 
Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) and the National Hospital 
Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NHAMCS) (80 FR 62668). We also 
clarified that templates included in the implementation guide align 
with the CDA standard (80 FR 62668). We stated in the 2015 Edition 
Final Rule that data covered by this criterion will only be collected 
by the CDC rather than at the jurisdictional level (80 FR 62669). The 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(7) currently references the 
Health Level 7 (HL7[supreg]) Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] 
Release 2: National Health Care Surveys (NHCS), Release 1--US Realm, 
Draft Standard for Trial Use, December 2014 standard in Sec.  
170.205(s)(1). We note that the Sec.  170.315(f)(7) certification 
criterion is optional to complete the Public Health Registry measures 
in the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category and the 
Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program.\50\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \50\ See the CY 2026 PFS Proposed Rule Table 62, available at 
https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-13271/p-3055 and the FY2026 
IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule Table X.F.-05 available at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-14681/p-4161.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We have reviewed and evaluated the transmission to public health 
agencies--health care surveys certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(f)(7) with a goal of reducing burden while still supporting our 
policy priorities. We are also seeking to align with CDC priorities 
around data modernization and encouraging the use of FHIR-based 
approaches. The removal of this criterion would encourage industry to 
modernize and scale their reporting approach alongside CDC's efforts.
    We believe that removing the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(f)(7) would reduce burden while at the same time honor our 
policy goals to ensure health IT interoperability and functionality. 
Hospitals and clinicians have been actively submitting these surveys 
for over a decade and continue to meet the technical requirements set 
by CDC, even when these requirements outpace the certification 
criteria.\51\ We propose a January 1, 2027, effective date for the 
removal of the transmission to public health agencies--health care 
surveys criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(7). We welcome feedback on these 
proposals.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \51\ See https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-health-care-surveys-reporting-ig/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

7. Design and Performance Certification Criteria
a. Automated Numerator Recording
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62669), we adopted a 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(1) that requires the 
capability to create a report or file that enables a user to review the 
patients or actions that would make the patient or action eligible to 
be included in the numerator of a percentage-based measure in the MIPS 
Promoting Interoperability performance category and the Medicare 
Promoting Interoperability Program. We first adopted this capability 
for the 2014 edition in Sec.  170.314(g)(1) to complement the 
``automated measure calculation'' certification criterion to support 
the associated meaningful use objectives in the EHR Incentive Programs. 
In the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25708), we updated the references to 
the EHR Incentive Programs in the criterion to reflect CMS' updates to 
the name of the Programs, which are now the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category.
    We propose to remove the ``automated numerator recording'' 
certification criterion and reserve Sec.  170.315(g)(1). We have 
reviewed and evaluated the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(1), seeking to identify ways to reduce burden while still 
supporting our policy goals. Health IT developers that facilitate 
customer participation in the Medicare Promoting Interoperability 
Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category 
have been supporting the recording of numerator data associated with 
the measures and its previous iterations for many years. CMS 
establishes the measures and provides any additional information about 
how the numerator should be recorded through rulemaking and subsequent 
communications. ASTP/ONC uses the measure specifications established by 
CMS to develop testing procedures for health IT developers to certify 
their products to the automated numerator recording certification 
criterion. Certification of health IT to record the actions of the 
numerator has played an important role in ensuring health IT developers 
consistently implemented the measures established by CMS. However, we 
believe that developers now have significant experience with 
implementing CMS requirements, and they will continue to ensure that 
the measures are recorded in a fashion that meets CMS requirements to 
ensure that their customers can successfully participate in the absence 
of additional testing requirements under the ONC Health IT 
Certification Program. If our removal of the automated numerator 
recording certification criterion is finalized as proposed, we will 
work with CMS to ensure relevant guidance and materials for existing 
measures is consolidated as part of the informational materials that 
CMS maintains regarding measures in the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category.
    We believe that removing the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(1) will reduce administrative burden, as well as burden for 
health IT developers and health care providers while still allowing us 
to achieve our policy goals. Because the certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(g)(1) is specified in the definitions of CEHRT 
established by CMS for the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program 
(42 CFR 495.4) and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance 
category (42 CFR 414.1305), we believe that a transition date is 
needed. Therefore, we propose to remove the automated numerator 
recording certification criterion as of January 1, 2027, and reserve 
Sec.  170.315(g)(1). We welcome comments on this proposal.
b. Automated Measure Calculation
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62669 through 62670), we 
adopted the ``automated measure calculation'' certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(g)(2) that requires the capability to record the 
numerator and denominator and create a report including the numerator, 
denominator, and resulting percentage associated with each applicable 
measure in the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program and the MIPS 
Promoting Interoperability performance category. This capability was 
first adopted as a 2011 Edition certification criterion to support the 
associated meaningful use stage 1 objectives and subsequently adopted 
in the 2014 Edition in Sec.  170.314(g)(2) (77 FR 54184). In the Cures 
Act Final Rule (85 FR 25708), we updated the references to the EHR 
Incentive Programs in the certification criterion to reflect CMS' 
updated names for the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program and 
the MIPS Promoting Interoperability

[[Page 60995]]

performance category. In the HTI-2 Final Rule (89 FR 101809), we 
inadvertently removed and reserved Sec.  170.315(g)(2) due to an 
amendatory instruction drafting error. We corrected this error through 
a technical correction in the HTI-4 Final Rule published on August 4, 
2025, which was included in the CY26 CMS IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule as a 
rider (90 FR 37182).
    We now propose to remove the ``automated measure calculation'' 
certification criterion and reserve Sec.  170.315(g)(2) with an 
effective date of January 1, 2027. We have reviewed and evaluated the 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(2), seeking to identify 
ways to reduce burden while still supporting our policy goals. As with 
the automated numerator recording certification criterion discussed 
above, health IT developers that facilitate customer participation in 
the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting 
Interoperability performance category have been supporting the 
calculation of measures in the program and its previous iterations for 
many years. CMS establishes these measures and provides any additional 
information about how the measures should be calculated through 
rulemaking and subsequent program communications. ASTP/ONC uses the 
measure specifications established by CMS to develop testing procedures 
for health IT developers to certify their products to the automated 
measure calculation certification criterion. Certification of health IT 
for measure calculation has played an important role in ensuring health 
IT developers consistently implemented the measures established by CMS. 
However, we believe that developers now have significant experience 
with implementing CMS requirements, and that they will continue to 
ensure that the measures are calculated in a fashion that meets CMS 
requirements to ensure that their customers can successfully 
participate in the absence of additional testing requirements under the 
Certification Program. If our removal of the automated measure 
calculation certification criterion is finalized as proposed, we will 
work with CMS to ensure relevant guidance and materials for existing 
measures is consolidated as part of the informational materials that 
CMS maintains regarding measures in the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category.
    We believe that removing the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(2) will reduce administrative burden for health IT 
developers that support customer participation in the Medicare 
Promoting Interoperability Program and MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category. Because the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(2) is specified in the definitions of CEHRT in 42 CFR 
414.1305 and 495.4 and currently required for reporting of Promoting 
Interoperability measures, we believe that a transition date is needed. 
Therefore, we propose to remove and reserve the automated measure 
calculation certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(2) as of 
January 1, 2027. We welcome comments on this proposal.
c. Safety Enhanced Design
    We propose to remove the ``safety-enhanced design'' certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(3) and the reference to this 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.550(g)(1) as of the effective date 
of a final rule for this proposed rule. The safety-enhanced design 
certification criterion specifies the user-centered design (UCD) 
testing that must be applied to certain health IT capabilities 
submitted for certification. Certification to this certification 
criterion is conditional as its scope and applicability depends on the 
other certification criteria for which a Health IT Module is presented 
for certification. Section 170.315(g)(3) prescribes specific 
requirements for how certified capabilities are designed or made 
available to users. For example, during the design and development of 
certified health IT, developers are required to apply UCD processes to 
the capabilities reference in Sec.  170.315(g)(3). This certification 
criterion is not included in the Base EHR definition in Sec.  170.102 
or the definition of CEHRT established by CMS in 42 CFR 414.1305 and 42 
CFR 495.4.
    In the 2014 Edition Proposed Rule (77 FR 13842), we provided an 
overview of the International Organization for Standardization's (ISO) 
definition of usability and outlined that EHR technology certification 
could introduce some improvements that we believed would enhance both 
the safety and efficiency of CEHRT. This position mirrored statements 
made by interested parties regarding a gap between optimal usability 
and the usability offered by some EHR technologies at that time. In 
November 2011, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) called on the Secretary 
of HHS to specify the quality and risk management process requirements 
that health IT vendors must adopt, with a particular focus on human 
factors, safety culture, and usability. In the 2014 Edition Proposed 
Rule, we proposed to focus on the process of UCD to improve overall 
usability. We prioritized eight certification criteria \52\ and 
associated capabilities to which the proposed certification criterion 
would require UCD to be applied. We chose these eight because we 
believed they posed the greatest risk for patient harm, and therefore, 
the greatest opportunity for error prevention. We also noted that the 
methods for how an EHR technology developer could employ UCD are well 
defined in documents and requirements such as ISO 9241-11, ISO 13407, 
ISO 16982, and NISTIR 7741. Our proposed approach sought to enable EHR 
technology developers to choose their UCD approach and not to prescribe 
specific UCD processes that would be required to meet this 
certification criterion. We also proposed in the 2014 Edition Proposed 
Rule (77 FR 13843), that testing to this certification criterion would 
require EHR technology developers to document that their UCD 
incorporates all the data elements defined in the Customized Common 
Industry Format Template for EHR Usability Testing (NISTIR 7742).\53\ 
We noted that with respect to demonstrating compliance with this 
certification criterion that this information would need to be 
available to an ONC-ACB for review. Finally, we indicated that this 
documentation would become a component of the publicly available 
testing results on which a certification is based.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \52\ Sec.  170.314(a)(1) (CPOE); Sec.  170.314(a)(2) (drug-drug, 
drug-allergy interaction checks); Sec.  170.314(a)(6) (medication 
list); Sec.  170.314(a)(7) (medication allergy list); Sec.  
170.314(a)(8) (clinical decision support); Sec.  170.314(a)(16) 
(electronic medication administration record); Sec.  170.314(b)(3) 
(electronic prescribing); and Sec.  170.314(b)(4) (clinical 
information reconciliation).
    \53\ http://www.nist.gov/manuscript-publication-search.cfm?pub_id=907312.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In the 2014 Edition Final Rule (77 FR 54187 through 54190), we 
adopted Sec.  170.314(g)(3) as proposed, specifying that UCD must be 
applied to each capability of an EHR technology that is associated with 
the eight certification criteria named in the safety-enhanced design 
certification criterion. In addition, we finalized that the information 
from the NISTIR 7742 was required to be submitted for each of the 
criteria specified in the 2014 Edition safety-enhanced design 
certification criterion.
    In the 2014 Edition Release 2 Final Rule, we revised the safety-
enhanced design certification criterion in to include three CPOE 
certification criteria (79 FR 54436) and the clinical information 
reconciliation and incorporation (CIRI) certification criterion (79 FR 
54439).
    In the 2015 Edition Proposed Rule (80 FR 16856), we proposed to 
adopt a 2015

[[Page 60996]]

Edition safety-enhanced design certification criterion that reflected 
updates to the 2014 Edition safety-enhanced design criterion. We 
proposed to include 17 certification criteria (seven of which were new) 
in the 2015 Edition safety-enhanced design certification criterion. For 
each of the referenced certification criteria and their corresponding 
capabilities presented for certification, we proposed to require that 
UCD processes must be applied to satisfy the certification criterion. 
For the 2015 Edition safety-enhanced design criterion, we further 
proposed to add more specificity around requirements for the 
information that must be provided to demonstrate compliance with this 
certification criterion. For instance, we proposed in Sec.  
170.315(g)(3)(ii) that information must be submitted on the specific 
UCD processes used. We further proposed in Sec.  170.315(g)(3)(iii) 
that a health IT developer must submit information about and findings 
of the UCD testing conducted for each of the criteria specified in the 
2015 Edition safety-enhanced design certification criterion. We 
proposed that this information would become part of the test results 
publicly available on CHPL.
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62670), we adopted the 
proposed safety-enhanced design certification criterion with 
modifications. Modifications included adopting a reduced list of 
criteria for inclusion in the safety-enhanced design certification 
criterion \54\ and adopting the requirement that ONC-ACBs certify 
Health IT Modules to Sec.  170.315(g)(3) consistent with the 
requirements included in the certification criterion.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \54\ Sec.  170.315(a)(1) computerized provider order entry--
medications; Sec.  170.315(a)(2) computerized provider order entry--
laboratory; Sec.  170.315(a)(3) computerized provider order entry--
diagnostic imaging; Sec.  170.315(a)(4) drug-drug, drug-allergy 
interaction checks; Sec.  170.315(a)(5) demographics; Sec.  
170.315(a)(6) problem list; Sec.  170.315(a)(7) medication list; 
Sec.  170.315(a)(8) medication allergy list; Sec.  170.315(a)(9) 
clinical decision support; Sec.  170.315(a)(14) implantable device 
list; Sec.  170.315(b)(2) clinical information reconciliation and 
incorporation; and Sec.  170.315(b)(3) electronic prescribing.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We anticipate the removal of this criterion would reduce costs and 
burden for health IT developers and health care providers. For example, 
when pursuing certification, health IT developers must recruit a 
minimum of ten participants, conduct the necessary testing, and submit 
metrics for each certification criterion, for which they seek 
certification, that is refenced within Sec.  170.315(g)(3). We refer 
readers to section VIII (Regulatory Impact Analysis) of this proposed 
rule for more detailed information on cost estimates of safety-enhanced 
design and potential cost savings. In addition to reducing costs and 
burden for health IT developers, we anticipate that removing this 
certification criterion would allow health IT developers to redirect 
time and resources towards more innovative approaches to support and 
improve safety-enhanced design in their products. Additionally, we no 
longer believe that this certification criterion provides the same 
benefit to the regulatory burden profile that it did when first adopted 
over ten years ago. In contrast, its presence in the Certification 
Program has led to instances where administrative processes to fulfill 
its requirements have delayed health IT developers from achieving 
product certifications without added improvements in user-centered 
design. In short, this certification criterion's impact has diminished 
since it was first adopted. Moreover, compared to its burden, we have 
seen little use of the transparent reporting associated with this 
certification criterion (Sec.  170.523(f)(1)(xix)).
    Consistent with E.O. 14192, ``Unleashing Prosperity Through 
Deregulation,'' and the reasons we stated above, we believe it is 
appropriate to remove this certification criterion. Therefore, we 
propose to remove the safety-enhanced design certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(g)(3) and the reference to this certification criteria in 
Sec.  170.550(g)(1) as of the effective date of a subsequent final 
rule. We welcome comments on our proposal.
d. Quality Management System
    We propose to remove the ``quality management system'' (QMS) 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(4) and the reference to 
this certification criteria in Sec.  170.550(g)(2) as of the effective 
date of a final rule for this proposed rule. The QMS certification 
criterion states for each capability that a technology includes and for 
which that capability's certification is sought, the use of a QMS in 
the development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of that 
capability must be identified and satisfied in one of the following 
ways: either the QMS used is established by the Federal government or a 
standards developing organization (SDO) or the QMS used is mapped to 
one or more QMS established by the Federal government or SDOs. Per 
Sec.  170.550(g), this certification criterion is mandatory for all 
certified Health IT Modules.
    The 2014 Edition Proposed Rule (77 FR 13842) referenced a report by 
the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in which IOM recommended that we 
``[establish] quality management principles and processes in health 
IT.'' Accordingly, we stated that we were considering including in the 
final rule an additional certification criterion that would require an 
EHR technology developer to document how their EHR technology 
development processes either align with, or deviate from, certain 
quality management principles and processes (77 FR 13843).
    In the 2014 Edition Final Rule, we adopted a new quality management 
system certification criterion in Sec.  170.314(g)(4) that was intended 
as a first step to focus on QMS and build on it in an incremental 
fashion (77 FR 54191). We finalized that all EHR technology certified 
to the 2014 Edition certification criteria would need to be certified 
to this certification criterion. In addition, we revised Sec.  170.550 
to require that, when certifying EHR Modules to the 2014 Edition EHR 
certification criteria, ONC-ACBs must certify EHR Modules to this 
certification criterion.
    In the 2015 Edition Proposed Rule (80 FR 16858), we proposed a 
revised version of the QMS certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(4). We proposed to require the identification of the QMS 
used in the development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of 
capabilities certified under the Certification Program. We proposed 
that for a Health IT Module to be certified, the identified QMS must be 
compliant with a quality management system established by the Federal 
government or an SDO, or mapped to one or more quality management 
systems established by the Federal government or SDOs. In the 2015 
Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62672), we adopted the proposed version of 
the QMS certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(4). In addition, we 
revised Sec.  170.550 to require ONC-ACBs to certify Health IT Modules 
to the new criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(4) when certifying to the 2015 
Edition.
    When we initially proposed this certification criterion in the 2014 
Edition Proposed Rule, we understood that some EHR technology 
developers already had quality management principles and processes in 
place, but we did not believe, especially considering the IOM 
recommendation, that the EHR technology industry consistently followed 
such processes. Since the adoption of the QMS certification criterion, 
we find that industry and other interested parties now widely employ 
quality management principles. As an example,

[[Page 60997]]

an ISO 9001-certified quality management system provides a structured 
set of requirements designed to support quality-focused business 
operations.\55\ The ISO Survey 2023 \56\ showed that 26,833 ISO 9001 
certificates were issued in the U.S., demonstrating widespread adoption 
across diverse industries. Given these advances across industry, we 
have determined that this certification criterion, and program 
requirements that all Health IT Modules be certified to the criterion, 
have become duplicative. Therefore, we propose to remove the criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(g)(4) and the reference to this certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.550(g)(2) as of the effective date of a 
subsequent final rule. We welcome comments on our proposal.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \55\ https://amtivo.com/us/resources/insights/iso-9001-meaning-requirements-and-beginners-guide/.
    \56\ https://www.iso.org/the-iso-survey.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

e. Accessibility-Centered Design
    We propose to remove the ``accessibility-centered design'' (ACD) 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(5) and the reference to 
this certification criteria in Sec.  170.550(g)(3) as of the effective 
date of a final rule for this proposed rule. This certification 
criterion requires that all developers of Health IT Modules identify 
and use a health IT accessibility-centered design standard or law in 
the development, testing, implementation and maintenance of each 
capability for which certification is sought. The removal of this 
certification criterion, if finalized, would not exempt health IT 
developers and providers from their independent obligations under 
applicable federal civil rights laws, including Section 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act, Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act, and the 
Americans with Disabilities Act. The requirements of these civil rights 
laws include, but are not limited to, providing individuals with 
disabilities equal access to information and appropriate auxiliary aids 
and services as provided in the applicable statutes and regulations.
    In the 2015 Edition Proposed Rule, we proposed a new accessibility-
centered design certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(8) (80 FR 
16861). We proposed that this criterion would require the 
identification of user-centered design standard(s) or laws for 
accessibility that were applied, or complied with, in the development 
of specific capabilities included in a Health IT Module or, 
alternatively, the lack of such application or compliance. We proposed 
to require that for each capability that a Health IT Module includes, 
and for which that capability's certification is sought, the use of a 
health IT accessibility-centered design standard or compliance with a 
health IT accessibility law in the development, testing, 
implementation, and maintenance of that capability must be identified. 
We also proposed that the method(s) used to meet this proposed 
certification criterion would be reported through the open data CHPL 
and we proposed to revise Sec.  170.550 to require ONC-ACBs to certify 
all Health IT Modules certified to the 2015 Edition to the 
accessibility-centered design certification criterion.
    The 2015 Edition Final Rule adopted the accessibility-centered 
design (ACD) certification criterion as proposed, moving it to Sec.  
170.315(g)(5) (80 FR 62673). Additionally, we finalized in Sec.  
170.550 that ONC-ACBs must certify all 2015 Edition Health IT Modules 
to the criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(5).
    In the 2015 Edition Proposed Rule we explained that the proposed 
certification criterion would serve to increase transparency around the 
application of user-centered design standards for accessibility to 
health IT and the compliance of health IT with accessibility laws (80 
FR 16861). We stated that this transparency would benefit health care 
providers, consumers, government entities, and other stakeholders, and 
would encourage health IT developers to pursue the application of more 
accessibility standards and laws in product development that could lead 
to improved usability for health care providers with disabilities and 
health care outcomes for patients with disabilities. Since the adoption 
of this certification criterion, we find that industry and other 
interested parties have readily adopted this application of user-
centered design as an industry standard. For instance, according to 
CHPL data, as of August 2025, every single active Certified Health IT 
Module (721 total) was certified to Sec.  170.315(g)(5). The proposed 
removal of this certification criterion would reduce the effort of 
health IT developers to meet ongoing program requirements that 
duplicate widely adopted accessibility-centered design practices, 
allowing developers to refocus these resources on innovation and 
meeting the needs of their clients and end users in other areas.
    Therefore, we propose to remove the accessibility-center design 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(5) and the reference to 
this certification criterion in Sec.  170.550(g)(3) as of the effective 
date of a final rule for this proposed rule. As stated earlier, the 
removal of this certification criterion, if finalized as proposed, 
would not exempt health IT developers and providers from their 
independent obligations under applicable federal civil rights laws, 
including but not limited to, providing individuals with disabilities 
equal access to information and appropriate auxiliary aids and 
services. We welcome comments on our proposal.
f. Consolidated CDA Creation Performance
    We propose to remove the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(6) and reserve that section. We also propose to remove Sec.  
170.550(g)(4) which references the criterion, as described elsewhere in 
this proposed rule. The ``Consolidated CDA creation performance'' 
certification criterion helps to ensure the proper conformance of 
Consolidated CDAs (C-CDAs) for transition of care and referral 
summaries that are sent to and received from external organizations. In 
the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we adopted a new Consolidated CDA creation 
performance certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(6) that 
assesses a product's C-CDA creation performance if the Health IT Module 
is presented for certification with C-CDA creation capabilities within 
its scope (80 FR 62674). In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we updated the 
associated standards (89 FR 1224).
    We have stated elsewhere in this proposed rule that while C-CDA-
based standards are still in use, the industry is shifting toward 
adoption of FHIR-based standards, which are designed to enable greater 
interoperability and innovation. We believe that maintaining the 
current level of support for this and other C-CDA-based criteria, 
including putting effort and resources toward testing and 
certification, can detract from industry efforts to move toward FHIR-
based solutions. We believe that removing the Consolidated CDA creation 
performance certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(6) would 
contribute to reducing the effort health IT developers and health care 
providers are focusing on C-CDA support and allow for redirection of 
efforts toward greater use of FHIR-based standards in health IT. We 
propose to remove the Consolidated CDA creation performance 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(6) as of the effective date 
of a subsequent final rule. We welcome feedback on these proposals.
g. Application Access--Patient Selection
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62602), we adopted the 
``application

[[Page 60998]]

access--patient selection'' certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(7) that includes the capability to receive a request with 
sufficient information to uniquely identify a patient and return an ID 
or other token that can be used by an application to subsequently 
execute requests for that patient's data.
    We propose to remove the application access--patient selection 
criterion and reserve Sec.  170.315(g)(7) as of January 1, 2027. We 
have reviewed and evaluated the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(7), seeking to identify ways to reduce burden while still 
supporting our policy goals. We refer readers to section I.A.2.b for 
detailed discussion on ``America's FHIR-Forward Future.'' Given our 
increased focus on standards-based APIs in the Certification Program, 
we believe it is appropriate to remove this functional API criterion at 
this time. Specifically, since adoption of the SMART App Launch 
Implementation Guide in Sec.  170.215(c) all Health IT Modules 
certified to the standardized API for patient and population services 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(10) must support the 
functional requirement described in Sec.  170.315(g)(7)(i) according to 
the SMART App Launch Implementation Guide. Further, we are also 
proposing elsewhere in this proposed rule to remove a corresponding 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(9). Should we finalize 
removal of the certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(9), the 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(7) would lose its intended 
utility. We believe that reducing compliance burdens for health IT 
developers that participate in the Certification Program would foster 
industry innovation and encourage the development of more creative 
interoperability solutions. We have similarly also removed the 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(8) via a technical 
correction in the HTI-4 Final Rule (90 FR 37182), which was published 
in tandem with the FY2026 IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule (90 FR 36536). We 
had intended to remove Sec.  170.315(g)(8) in the HTI-2 Final Rule, but 
mistakenly removed Sec.  170.315(g)(2) instead due to an amendatory 
instruction drafting instruction error. We corrected this error in the 
HTI-4 Final Rule.
    The application access--patient selection certification criterion 
is included in the Base EHR definition in Sec.  170.102. The criterion 
is also associated with measures under the Provider to Patient Exchange 
and Health Information Exchange objectives of the Medicare Promoting 
Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting Interoperability 
performance category. Accordingly, we believe that a transition date is 
needed for the removal of this measure, if our proposal is finalized, 
that would allow CMS to make appropriate program adjustments. 
Therefore, we propose to remove the application access--all data 
request certification criterion as of January 1, 2027, and reserve 
Sec.  170.315(g)(7).
    We believe that removing the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(7) will reduce administrative burden as well as burden for 
health IT developers and health care providers while still allowing us 
to achieve our policy goals. We welcome comments on this proposal.
h. Application Access--All Data Request
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62602), we established the 
``application access--all data request'' certification criterion at 
Sec.  170.315(g)(9) that requires the capability to respond to requests 
for patient data for all of the data classes expressed in the standards 
in Sec.  170.213. In the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25642), we revised 
Sec.  170.315(g)(9) to add requirements for the USCDI and remove 
support for the CCDS by a specified date. In the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 
FR 1192), we made revisions to support USCDI v2 and v3 updates and 
changes to data classes and constituent data elements for C-CDA and C-
CDA 2.1 Companion Guide.
    We propose to remove the application access--all data request 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(9) as of January 1, 2027. 
We have reviewed and evaluated the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(9), seeking to identify ways to reduce burden for health IT 
developers and health care providers while still supporting our policy 
goals. As we have stated in the above section on our proposal to remove 
Sec.  170.315(g)(7) and in section I.A.2.b of this rule, we are 
increasing focus on standards-based APIs, and we believe it is 
appropriate to remove this functional API criterion at this time. We 
believe the functionality of the criterion has been widely adopted (as 
discussed in section III.A) among health IT developers and is not 
likely to go away as a supported functionality solely because of 
removal from the Certification Program. We also believe that removing 
this certification criterion could spur further industry innovation and 
support the development of more creative interoperability solutions.
    We believe that removing the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(g)(9) will reduce administrative burden as well as burden for 
health IT developers and health care providers by eliminating the need 
for developers of certified health IT to certify to the certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(g)(9). Because the certification criterion 
in Sec.  170.315(g)(9) is associated with measures under the Provider 
to Patient Exchange and Health Information Exchange objectives of the 
Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program and the MIPS Promoting 
Interoperability performance category, we believe that a transition 
date is needed.\57\ Therefore, we propose to remove the application 
access--all data request certification criterion as of January 1, 2027 
and reserve Sec.  170.315(g)(9). We welcome comments on this proposal.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \57\ See the CY 2026 PFS Proposed Rule Table 62, available at 
https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-13271/p-3055 and the FY2026 
IPPS/LTCH PPS Final Rule Table X.F.-05 available at https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-14681/p-4161.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

8. Transport Methods and Other Protocols Certification Criteria
a. Direct Project
    In the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62602), we adopted a revised 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(h)(1) that includes the 
capability to send and receive according to the Applicability Statement 
for Secure Health Transport (the primary Direct Project specification). 
We previously adopted this capability across different certification 
criteria as the 2014 Edition EHR Certification Criteria were maintained 
at Sec.  170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), and (h)(1).
    We propose to remove the ``transport methods and other protocols--
direct project'' certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(h)(1) as of 
the effective date of a final rule. We have reviewed and evaluated the 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(h)(1), seeking to identify 
ways to reduce burden while still supporting our policy goals. We 
believe that because this certification criterion was included as part 
of the 2014 Base EHR definition, the 2015 Base EHR definition 
(subsequently renamed the Base EHR definition), the functionality of 
this certification criterion has been widely adopted (as discussed in 
section III.A) among health IT developers and is not likely to go away 
as a supported functionality solely because of removal from the 
Certification Program. We no longer believe there is added benefit to 
include conformance testing for this functionality in the Certification 
Program as it is widely relied on and supported in the health care 
industry and would be incorporated in health IT absent the 
certification criterion. We further believe that removing this 
certification criterion could spur further

[[Page 60999]]

industry innovation by enabling health IT developers to redirect 
investment in certification and testing for this criterion to new 
areas.
    We believe the removal of this certification criterion will reduce 
administrative burden and costs associated with certification for 
health IT developers and health care providers by eliminating the need 
for developers of certified health IT to certify to the certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(h)(1) without substantially impacting our 
broader policy goals around interoperability and exchange and will 
allow for further innovation and development. Therefore, we propose to 
remove the transport methods and other protocols--direct project 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(h)(1) as of the effective date 
of a subsequent final rule. We welcome comments on this proposal.
b. Direct Project, Edge Protocol, and XDR/XDM
    In the 2015 Edition final rule we adopted a variation of the Sec.  
170.315(h)(1) certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(h)(2) to 
accommodate implementation differences. This certification criterion 
combined three standards conformance requirements (the primary Direct 
standard, the edge protocol, and XDR/XDM handling). We propose to 
remove the ``transport methods and other protocols--Direct Project, 
Edge Protocol, and XDR/XDM'' certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(h)(2) as of the effective date of a subsequent final rule. We 
have reviewed and evaluated the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(h)(2), seeking to identify ways to reduce burden while still 
supporting our policy goals. Similar to Sec.  170.315(h)(1), we believe 
the functionality of this certification criterion has been widely 
adopted (as discussed in section III.A) among health IT developers and 
is not likely to go away as a supported functionality solely because of 
removal from the Certification Program, since it has been part of the 
2014 Edition Base EHR definition, and 2015 Edition Base EHR definition 
(renamed the Base EHR definition), and the current criterion has not 
substantively changed since it was adopted in the 2015 Edition Final 
Rule. We further believe that removing this criterion could spur 
further industry innovation in this area by allowing for greater 
flexibility and reduced burden and costs from the need to certify to 
the certification criterion. Because removing Sec. Sec.  170.315(h)(1)-
(2) would remove all of the certification criteria under Sec.  
170.315(h), we propose to remove and reserve Sec.  170.315(h) in its 
entirety. We welcome comments on this proposal.

B. Standards and Implementation Specifications for Health Information 
Technology

1. United States Core Data for Interoperability Version 3.1 Update 
(USCDI v3.1)
    The USCDI standard in Sec.  170.213 is a baseline set of data that 
can be commonly exchanged across care settings for a wide range of 
uses. Certain certification criteria in the Certification Program 
currently require the use of one of the versions of the USCDI standard 
in Sec.  170.213. We established USCDI as a standard in the Cures Act 
Final Rule (85 FR 25670), adopting USCDI Version 1 (USCDI v1) in Sec.  
170.213 and incorporating it by reference in Sec.  170.299. USCDI is 
also referenced by HHS programs and used by the health care community 
to align interoperability requirements and national priorities for 
health IT across industry initiatives. For the overall structure and 
organization of USCDI, including data classes and data elements, please 
see www.healthIT.gov/USCDI.
    We published the ``USCDI v3 Data Elements Enforcement Discretion 
Notice,'' \58\ on March 21, 2025, which stated that ASTP/ONC is 
exercising enforcement discretion, and issued certification guidance 
for the Certification Program. Specifically, under this enforcement 
discretion notice and certification guidance, we stated that ASTP/ONC 
will not take any enforcement action under 45 CFR 170.565 against an 
ONC-ACB based on non-compliance with 45 CFR 170.550 for certifying a 
Health IT Module that is presented for certification to a certification 
criterion or criteria in 45 CFR 170.315 that cross-references USCDI v3, 
where the Health IT Module:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \58\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/uscdi-v3-data-elements-enforcement-discretion.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    1. Does not demonstrate the capability to categorize data on 
individuals based on either or both of the following data elements:
     Sexual orientation; and
     Gender identity; or
    2. Only demonstrates the capability to categorize data on 
individuals for the sex data element in accordance with the following 
SNOMED CT[supreg] codes:
     248152002 [verbar] Female (finding) [verbar]; and
     248153007 [verbar] Male (finding) [verbar].
    Additionally, under this enforcement discretion notice and 
certification guidance, we stated that ASTP/ONC will not take any 
enforcement action under 45 CFR 170.565 against an ONC-ACB based on 
non-compliance with 45 CFR 170.550 for certifying a Health IT Module 
that is presented for certification to the ``patient demographics and 
observations'' certification criterion (45 CFR 170.315(a)(5)), where 
the Health IT Module:
    1. Does not demonstrate conformance with any or all of the 
following data and observations in paragraph (a)(5)(i): sex parameter 
for clinical use, sexual orientation, gender identity, name to use, and 
pronouns; or
    2. Does not demonstrate conformance with any or all of the 
following paragraphs of (a)(5)(i): (D) (``sexual orientation''), (E) 
(``gender identity''), (F) (``sex parameter for clinical use''), (G) 
(``name to use''), and (H) (``pronouns''); or
    3. Only demonstrates, for conformance with paragraph (a)(5)(i)(C) 
(``sex''), that it can record sex in accordance with either the 
standard specified in Sec.  170.207(n)(1) for the period up to and 
including December 31, 2025, or the following SNOMED CT[supreg] codes 
found in the standard specified in Sec.  170.207(n)(2):
     248152002 [verbar] Female (finding) [verbar]; and
     248153007 [verbar] Male (finding) [verbar].
    We stated that ASTP/ONC will not exercise its direct review 
authority under 45 CFR 170.580 for any non-conformity, potential or 
actual, that arises solely from a Health IT Module not demonstrating 
the capabilities specified above or for only demonstrating the limited 
specified capabilities above, as applicable, for the relevant 
certification criteria requirements.
    We also stated that this enforcement discretion notice, and 
certification guidance will remain in effect for twelve (12) months 
from the date of this notice or until HHS completes a regulatory action 
to revise the applicable regulations, whichever comes first.
    In June 2025, we published the USCDI v3.1,\59\ which removes or 
updates from USCDI v3 the data elements for Sex, Sexual Orientation, 
and Gender Identity in the Patient Demographics/Information Data Class. 
We propose to adopt USCDI v3.1 in Sec.  170.213(a) and incorporate it 
by reference in Sec.  170.299. The removal of data elements from USCDI 
v3 reflected in USCDI v3.1 aligns with our other proposals related to 
Sec.  170.315(a)(5) (see section III.A.1.a), resulting in burden 
reduction for health IT developers and cost savings associated with the 
enforcement discretion and ongoing maintenance requirements over time. 
In addition,

[[Page 61000]]

these data elements (e.g., sexual orientation and gender identity) do 
not support the meeting of specific measures under the Medicare 
Promoting Interoperability Program or the MIPS Promoting 
Interoperability performance category, and are therefore not essential 
for inclusion in certified health IT that is used to meet the CEHRT 
definitions and support meeting measures under those programs. 
Therefore, we propose to remove USCDI v3 in Sec.  170.213(b) and USCDI 
v1 in Sec.  170.213(a) which expires on January 1, 2026. The effect of 
these proposals, if finalized in a subsequent final rule, would be that 
USCDI v3.1 would be the only version of USCDI in Sec.  170.213. In 
other words, all Health IT Modules that cross-reference Sec.  170.213 
would need to conform to USCDI v3.1 as of the effective date of a 
subsequent final rule. Given that USCDI v3.1 is a reduction, rather 
than expansion, of required support for data elements, we do not 
anticipate that Health IT Modules that cross-reference Sec.  170.213 
would require further development to conform to USCDI v3.1.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \59\ See https://www.healthit.gov/isp/sites/isp/files/USCDI-Version-3-1_2025_508.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We welcome comments on our proposals.
a. National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act
    The National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act (NTTAA) of 
1995 (15 U.S.C. 3701 et. seq.) and the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB) Circular A-119 \60\ require the use of, wherever practical, 
technical standards that are developed or adopted by voluntary 
consensus standards bodies to carry out policy objectives or 
activities, with certain exceptions. The NTTAA and OMB Circular A-119 
provide exceptions to this general rule, namely when doing so would be 
inconsistent with applicable law or otherwise impractical. Agencies 
have the discretion to decline the use of existing voluntary consensus 
standards if it is determined that such standards are inconsistent with 
applicable law or otherwise impractical, and instead use a government-
unique standard or other standard. In addition to the consideration of 
voluntary consensus standards, the OMB Circular A-119 recognizes the 
contributions of standardization activities that take place outside of 
the voluntary consensus standards process. Therefore, in instances 
where use of voluntary consensus standards would be inconsistent with 
applicable law or otherwise impracticable, other standards should be 
considered that: meet the agency's regulatory, procurement or program 
needs; deliver favorable technical and economic outcomes; and are 
widely utilized in the marketplace. In this proposed rule, we propose 
to use a government-unique standard which is the USCDI v3.1 standard 
that we propose to adopt in Sec.  170.213. This standard is a hybrid of 
government policy (i.e., determining which data to include in the 
USCDI) and voluntary consensus standards (i.e., the vocabulary and code 
set standards attributed to USCDI data elements).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \60\ https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/revised_circular_a-119_as_of_1_22.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We are not aware of any voluntary consensus standard that could 
serve as an alternative for the purposes we describe in further detail 
throughout this proposed rule, including for establishing a baseline 
set of data that can be commonly exchanged across care settings for a 
wide range of uses.
b. ``Reasonably Available'' to Interested Parties
    The Office of the Federal Register has established requirements for 
materials (e.g., standards and implementation specifications) that 
agencies propose to incorporate by reference in the CFR (79 FR 66267: 1 
CFR 51.5(a)). To comply with these requirements, in section V 
(``Incorporation by Reference'') of this preamble, we provide a summary 
of, and a uniform resource location (URL) to, the USCDI standard we 
propose to adopt and subsequently incorporate by reference in the Code 
of Federal Regulations. To note, we also provide relevant information 
about the standard throughout the relevant sections of the proposed 
rule.
2. Standards and Implementation Specifications
    As discussed above, we have proposed to remove or revise certain 
certification criteria in the Certification Program in an effort to 
reduce burden, offer flexibility to both developers and health care 
providers, as well as to support innovation. Included in certain 
certification criteria are references to standards. In those instances 
where we have proposed to remove the criterion, we also generally 
propose to remove the standard that is referenced from the CFR. Where 
the certification criterion is not removed as of the effective date of 
a final rule but allows time for transition until January 1, 2027, we 
generally propose to also remove those referenced standards on January 
1, 2027. Only in limited circumstances do we retain a standard that is 
referenced in a certification criterion proposed for removal.
    We propose to remove the following standards as of the effective 
date of a subsequent final rule because they would no longer be 
referenced in certification criteria in the CFR: transport standards in 
Sec.  170.202(b) through (e); functional standards in Sec.  170.204; 
content exchange standards in Sec.  170.205(a)(3) and (5); vocabulary 
standards for representing electronic health information in Sec.  
170.207(r) and (s); and standards for health information technology to 
protect electronic health information created, maintained, and 
exchanged in Sec.  170.210. We note that certain standards in Sec.  
170.210 may not be removed contingent on whether we finalize the 
alternative privacy and security proposal (see section III.A.4). We 
also propose to remove the following standards as of the effective date 
of a final rule since we propose to revise the associated certification 
criterion requirements to no longer reference the given standard: the 
content and exchange standard in Sec.  170.205(r)(1), including the 
specific document templates in Sec.  170.205(r)(1)(i) through (iii).
    We propose to remove content exchange standards and implementation 
specifications referenced in certification criteria requirements that 
have expired in Sec.  170.205(k)(1) and (2) from the CFR. We propose to 
remove API standards that expire on January 1, 2026, in Sec.  
170.215(b)(1)(i) and (c)(1), and we also propose to remove and reserve 
outdated vocabulary standards in Sec.  170.207(f)(2) and (m)(1).
    Where we propose to remove certain certification criteria after a 
transition period until January 1, 2027, we also propose to remove 
those standards from the CFR effective on January 1, 2027. Standards 
referenced in a certification criterion proposed for removal with a 
transition date of January 1, 2027, include content exchange standards 
in Sec.  170.205(i)(2), (t)(1) through (4), and (s)(1). We also propose 
to remove certain vocabulary standards in order to eliminate outdated 
standards that are no longer referenced or have expired. Therefore, we 
propose to remove vocabulary standards in Sec.  170.207(a)(4), (c)(3), 
(e)(3) and (4). We also propose to remove vocabulary standards in Sec.  
170.207(d)(1)(ii), (d)(1)(iii), (n)(1) and (3), and (o) from the CFR 
and reserve these subsections.
    We welcome comments on our proposals. Specifically, we request 
comment on whether we should retain any of the standards and 
implementation specifications proposed for removal because the standard 
or implementation specification should be required for purposes of 
health IT

[[Page 61001]]

alignment, for instance, when acquiring, implementing or upgrading 
health IT systems and products consistent with sections 13111 and 13112 
of the HITECH Act.
    In certain instances, we have not proposed to remove a standard 
even though we propose to remove the certification criterion where the 
standard is referenced. As noted, under section 3004 of the PHSA, we 
may adopt standards independently of associated criteria in the 
Certification Program. Standards adopted in 45 CFR 170 subpart B may be 
referenced by other HHS programs and policies besides the Certification 
Program. For example, standards adopted in 45 CFR 170 subpart B, 
regardless of whether they are associated with health IT certification 
criteria, are also required for use under sections 13111 and 13112 of 
the HITECH Act when acquiring, implementing or upgrading health IT 
systems and products in certain instances.
    We do not propose to remove the standard in Sec.  170.205(o), data 
segmentation for privacy, because some developers still rely on these 
standards, which allow health care providers to tag health care 
documents with privacy metadata. We also do not propose to remove the 
Direct Project transport standard in Sec.  170.202(a)(2). We realize 
that the Direct Project standards are widely utilized in various use 
cases and emphasize that developers may still use these standards even 
if they are removed from certification criteria. We welcome comments on 
these proposals.
    We believe that keeping the primary Direct Project standard in 
Sec.  170.202(a)(2) but removing the other related standards and 
protocols in Sec.  170.202(b) through (e) from the Certification 
Program would acknowledge the current utilization of the Direct Project 
standard while recognizing the ongoing technological advancements 
related to transport, including movement toward FHIR-based standards, 
and would encourage and provide space for further innovation and market 
competition in this area. We propose a minor revision to Sec.  
170.205(d)(2) to add the full name of the HL7 Messaging Standard 
Version 2.5.1 standard. Lastly, we request comments on retaining the 
``Applicability Statement for Secure Health Transport'' requirement 
found in Sec.  170.315(h)(1)(i).

C. Terms and Definitions

    Because of the proposed removal of certain certification criteria 
from Sec.  170.315 discussed above, we propose to make conforming edits 
to the terms and definitions in Sec.  170.102.
1. Base EHR
    We propose to make conforming revisions to the Base EHR definition 
in Sec.  170.102 based on our proposals to remove certification 
criteria from the CFR that are currently referenced in Sec.  170.102. 
The Base EHR definition provides a baseline assurance that certified 
health IT has been developed to possess, at a minimum, a key set of 
capabilities. We note the Base EHR definition is based on the 
``Qualified EHR'' definition in section 3000(13) of the PHSA (77 FR 
54262). As we noted recently, we have generally sought to limit the 
Base EHR definition to elements required for the Qualified EHR 
definition in PHSA section 3000 (90 FR 37145). In section (3)(i) of the 
Base EHR definition, we propose to remove references to Sec.  
170.315(a)(14), (g)(7) and (9), and (h)(1) and (2). We propose to 
remove these certification criteria from the Base EHR definition 
because we have proposed to remove those certification criteria from 
the CFR. We also propose to move Sec.  170.315(b)(11) to section (3)(i) 
of the definition and remove and reserve section (3)(ii) and remove 
section (3)(iii) because the transition date has passed. We welcome 
feedback on these proposals.
2. Common Clinical Data Set
    We finalized in the Cures Act Final Rule that the CCDS would no 
longer be applicable for certified Health IT Modules 24 months after 
the publication date of the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25671), and 
then extended that date to December 31, 2022, in the interim final rule 
titled ``Information Blocking and the ONC Health IT Certification 
Program: Extension of Compliance Dates and Timeframes in Response to 
the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency'' (85 FR 70073). Because Sec.  
170.315(b)(6)(ii)(A), which also referenced CCDS, was available for the 
period before December 31, 2023, we did not propose to remove the 
definition of CCDS in Sec.  170.102 at that time. However, now that the 
date of December 31, 2023, has passed and we finalized the removal 
Sec.  170.315(b)(6) in the HTI-2 Final Rule (89 FR 101776) and there 
are no longer any references to CCDS in 45 CFR part 170, we propose to 
remove the term Common Clinical Data Set in Sec.  170.102. We welcome 
comments on these proposals.
3. Global Unique Device Identification Database and Production 
Identifier
    In section III.A.1.d, we propose to remove the ``implantable device 
list'' certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(a)(14) and reserve 
Sec.  170.315(a)(14). The implantable device list certification 
criterion requires Health IT Modules certified to Sec.  170.315(a)(14) 
to exchange, record, and allow a user to access a list of Unique Device 
Identifiers (UDIs) associated with a patient's implantable devices. The 
only references to the Global Unique Device Identification Database and 
Production Identifier in 45 CFR part 170 are in Sec.  170.315(a)(14). 
Because we propose to remove Sec.  170.315(a)(14), we propose to remove 
the definitions of Global Unique Device Identification Database and 
Production Identifier in Sec.  170.102 too as the terms would no longer 
be referenced in any other section of 45 CFR part 170. We welcome 
comments on these proposals.

D. Conditions and Maintenance of Certification Requirements for Health 
IT Developers

1. Assurances
    Section 3001(c)(5) of the PHSA (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11) (section 4002 
of the Cures Act) requires that a health IT developer, as a Condition 
of Certification requirement under the Certification Program, provide 
assurances to the Secretary that, unless for legitimate purpose(s) as 
specified by the Secretary, the developer will not take any action that 
constitutes information blocking as defined in section 3022(a) of the 
PHSA or any other action that may inhibit the appropriate exchange, 
access, and use of EHI. In the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25718), we 
implemented this provision through several Conditions of Certification 
and accompanying Maintenance of Certification requirements, which are 
set forth in Sec.  170.402. Because the transition dates in Sec.  
170.402(b)(2)(i) and (ii) have passed, we propose to revise the 
Maintenance of Certification requirements in Sec.  170.402(b)(2) to 
remove the transition dates and only include that a health IT developer 
that must comply with the requirements of Sec.  170.402(a)(4) must 
provide all of its customers of certified health IT with the health IT 
certified to the certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(10).
    We also propose to make additional conforming edits to Sec.  
170.402(b). Because we propose to remove the requirements in Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(iv) and (v) regarding source attribute support, access, 
and modification and in Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(vi) regarding intervention 
risk management for predictive DSIs, we also propose to remove Sec.  
170.402(b)(4), which requires

[[Page 61002]]

health IT developers to review and update as necessary source attribute 
information and intervention risk management practices. We welcome 
feedback on these proposals.
2. Application Programming Interfaces
    As a Condition of Certification requirement in section 3001(c)(5) 
of the PHSA (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11) (section 4002 of the Cures Act), 
health IT developers are required to publish APIs that allow ``health 
information from such technology to be accessed, exchanged, and used 
without special effort through the use of application programming 
interfaces or successor technology or standards, as provided for under 
applicable law.'' Section 4002 of the Cures Act also states that a 
developer must, through an API, ``provid[e] access to all data elements 
of a patient's electronic health record to the extent permissible under 
applicable privacy laws.'' The Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25642) 
captured both the technical functionality and behaviors necessary to 
implement the Cures Act API Condition of Certification requirement. 
Specifically, we adopted new standards, new implementation 
specifications, a new certification criterion, and modified the Base 
EHR definition. In addition, we finalized detailed Condition and 
Maintenance of Certification requirements for health IT developers of 
certified health IT in Sec.  170.404. Because the transition dates in 
Sec.  170.404(b)(2), (3), and (4) have passed, we propose to revise the 
Maintenance of Certification requirements in Sec.  170.404(b). We 
propose to revise Sec.  170.404(b)(2) to remove the date, and we 
propose to remove paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) entirely as they are 
outdated and, in the case of (b)(4) because it refers to certification 
criteria that we are proposing to remove. We also propose to revise 
Sec.  170.404(c) to update certification criteria referenced in the 
``Certified API technology'' definition. We propose to remove the 
reference to ``Sec.  170.315(g)(7) through'' and only keep Sec.  
170.315(g)(10) in the ``Certified API technology'' definition because 
we are proposing to remove Sec.  170.315(g)(7) through (9). We welcome 
feedback on these proposals.
3. Real World Testing
    Section 3001(c)(5) of the PHSA (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11) (section 4002 
of the Cures Act) requires, as a Condition and Maintenance of 
Certification under the Certification Program, that health IT 
developers have successfully tested the real world use of the 
technology for interoperability in the type of setting in which such 
technology would be marketed. Section 4003(a)(2) of the Cures Act 
defines interoperability as health information technology that enables 
the secure exchange of electronic health information with, and use of 
electronic health information from, other health information technology 
without special effort on the part of the user; allows for complete 
access, exchange, and use of all electronically accessible health 
information for authorized use under applicable state or federal law; 
and does not constitute information blocking as defined in section 
3022(a) of the Cures Act. This definition for interoperability was 
codified in 45 CFR 170.102.
    In the Cures Act Final Rule, through the Real World Testing 
Condition and Maintenance of Certification requirements, we finalized 
the implementation of the statute's real world testing requirements in 
45 CFR 170.405 for health IT certified to the following certification 
criteria:
     The ``care coordination'' certification criteria in Sec.  
170.315(b);
     The ``clinical quality measures'' certification criteria 
in Sec.  170.315(c)(1) through (c)(3);
     The ``view, download, and transmit to 3rd party'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(e)(1);
     The ``public health'' certification criteria in Sec.  
170.315(f);
     The certification criteria related to APIs in Sec.  
170.315(g)(7) through (g)(10); and
     The ``transport methods and other protocols'' 
certification criteria in Sec.  170.315(h).
    However, in that same final rule we replaced the ``application 
access--data category request'' certification criterion (Sec.  
170.315(g)(8)) with the ``standardized API for patient and population 
services'' certification criterion (Sec.  170.315(g)(10)). The 
``application access--data category request'' certification criterion 
was only available for certification until December 31, 2022, and we 
eventually removed the certification criterion from the CFR (89 FR 
101776). In the HTI-4 Final Rule, we finalized six new certification 
criteria. We clarified that because Sec.  170.405(a) cross references 
Sec.  170.315(b), the new Sec.  170.315(b)(4) ``real-time prescription 
benefit'' certification criterion finalized in HTI-4 would be 
automatically included within real world testing requirements. 
Similarly, we included five API-focused certification criteria: Sec.  
170.315(g)(31) ``provider prior authorization API--coverage 
requirements discovery''; Sec.  170.315(g)(32) ``provider prior 
authorization API--documentation templates and rules''; Sec.  
170.315(g)(33) ``provider prior authorization API--prior authorization 
support''; Sec.  170.315(j)(20) ``workflow triggers for decision 
support interventions--clients''; and Sec.  170.315(j)(21) 
``subscriptions--client'' in scope for real world testing. Health IT 
certified to the identified real world testing certification criteria 
are eligible for the SVAP under Sec.  170.405(b)(8) and (9).
    Consistent with the ``Real World Testing Condition and Maintenance 
of Certification Requirements Enforcement Discretion Notice'' \61\ we 
issued on June 30, 2025, we now propose the following deregulatory 
actions: (1) removing the requirement to submit real world testing 
plans for all real world testing certification criteria (Sec.  
170.405(b)(1)); (2) limiting full real world testing results reporting 
(Sec.  170.405(b)(2)) to only Health IT Modules that are certified to 
the API certification criteria identified below; and (3) permitting the 
use of SVAP for the remaining non-API real world testing certification 
criteria with minimal reporting requirements.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \61\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/real-world-testing-condition-and-maintenance-certification-requirements-enforcement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We note that certain certification criteria would be fully removed 
from real world testing requirements by virtue of their proposed 
removal from the Certification Program. We have included such an 
outcome in our proposed revised Real World Testing Condition of 
Certification (45 CFR 170.405(a)). If, in a subsequent final rule, we 
determine to keep any of the criteria proposed for removal and they are 
currently identified in the Real World Testing Condition of 
Certification (45 CFR 170.405(a)), they would also remain part of the 
Real World Testing Condition of Certification. Examples of such 
criteria would be the public health criteria proposed for removal 
(``transmission to cancer registries'' (Sec.  170.315(f)(4)) and 
``transmission to public health agencies--health care surveys'' (Sec.  
170.315(f)(7)).
    First, we propose to remove the real world testing plan submission 
requirement from the Real World Testing Maintenance of Certification 
requirements (Sec.  170.405(b)). Second, we propose to revise the 
results reporting requirements under Sec.  170.405(b)(2) to make clear 
what health IT developers must include in their real world testing 
results reporting. Specifically, developers will be expected to report 
on all health IT certified to any of the certification criteria in 
Sec.  170.315(g) certification criteria as of January 1 of the year in 
which they must complete real world testing. Developers must also

[[Page 61003]]

report on all health IT certified to any of the certification criteria 
in Sec.  170.315(g) that undergo updates via Inherited Certified Status 
during the real world testing year. This is consistent with current 
requirements to conduct a full calendar year of real world testing 
(Sec.  170.405(b)(2)(ii)).
    We propose to limit real world testing reporting (Sec.  
170.405(b)(2)) to API-focused certification criteria which are, at this 
time: ``standardized API for patient and population services'' (Sec.  
170.315(g)(10)); ``provider prior authorization API--coverage 
requirements discovery'' (Sec.  170.315(g)(31)); ``provider prior 
authorization API--documentation templates and rules'' (Sec.  
170.315(g)(32)); and ``provider prior authorization API--prior 
authorization support'' (Sec.  170.315(g)(33)). This approach aligns 
with our overall move to focus the Certification Program on APIs (see 
discussion in section I.A.2) with a particular focus on FHIR-based 
APIs.
    SVAP will remain available for all certified health IT subject to 
the Real World Testing Condition of Certification and Maintenance of 
Certification requirements. For the API-focused certification criteria 
identified above, the real world testing SVAP reporting requirements 
will not change. However, for health IT certified to the remaining real 
world testing certification criteria identified in Sec.  170.405(a), 
developers will only need to identify in their real world testing 
results their voluntary updates (health IT products, certification 
criteria, and standards/implementation specifications) to standards and 
implementation specifications that the National Coordinator has 
approved through SVAP, which is consistent with current requirements 
under 45 CFR 170.405(b)(2)(ii)(C). This approach will allow developers 
to continue to voluntarily update to newer versions of standards once 
approved by the National Coordinator, which supports advancing 
interoperability. For clarity, we have captured this SVAP requirement 
separately in proposed 45 CFR 170.405(b)(2)(iv). We also propose a 
revision to Sec.  170.405(b)(8) to cross-reference paragraph (a) of 
Sec.  170.405 instead of paragraph (b) due to our proposed revisions.
4. Attestations
    Section 4002(a) of the Cures Act requires that a health IT 
developer, as a Condition and Maintenance of Certification requirement 
under the Certification Program, provide to the Secretary an 
attestation to the Conditions of Certification required in section 
3001(c)(5)(D) of the PHSA. In the Cures Act Final Rule, we adopted 
regulation text implementing the Cures Act's ``Attestations'' Condition 
of Certification requirement in Sec.  170.406 (85 FR 25781). Under 
Sec.  170.406, health IT developers attest twice a year to compliance 
with the Conditions and Maintenance of Certification requirements. A 
health IT developer of certified health IT must provide the Secretary 
an attestation of compliance with Sec.  170.404, the API Conditions and 
Maintenance of Certification requirements, according to Sec.  
170.406(a)(4). Because we discuss the proposal to remove Sec.  
170.315(g)(7) through (9) in section III.A.7 of this proposed rule, we 
also propose to remove the reference to Sec.  170.315(g)(7) through (9) 
in Sec.  170.406(a)(4). In Sec.  170.406(a)(5), we also propose to 
remove the reference to Sec.  170.315(g)(7) through (9). Additionally, 
we propose to remove the reference to Sec.  170.315(h) in Sec.  
170.406(a)(5) because, as we discussed in section III.A.8, we propose 
to remove Sec.  170.315(h)(1) and (2), in effect removing the entirety 
of Sec.  170.315(h).
5. Insights
    The Cures Act specified requirements in section 4002(c) to 
establish an EHR Reporting Program to provide transparent reporting on 
certified health IT in the categories of interoperability, usability 
and user-centered design, security, conformance to certification 
testing, and other categories, as appropriate to measure the 
performance of EHR technology. In the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1311), we 
established the EHR Reporting Program as the ``Insights Condition and 
Maintenance of Certification'' (also referred to as the ``Insights 
Condition'') and finalized in Sec.  170.407 the first set of measures 
to reflect the interoperability category required by section 
3009A(a)(3)(A)(iii) of the PHSA. The Insights Condition includes seven 
measures on which health IT developers under the Certification Program 
must annually report consistent with specified timelines. We refer 
readers to the HTI-1 Proposed Rule (88 FR 23831) for detailed 
background on how we engaged with the health IT community for the 
purpose of identifying measures that developers of certified health IT 
would be required to report on as a Condition and Maintenance of 
Certification under the Certification Program.
    Consistent with E.O. 14192, ``Unleashing Prosperity Through 
Deregulation,'' \62\ we identified certain regulatory requirements for 
which the exercise of enforcement discretion may prevent or mitigate 
the accrual of sunk costs by regulated entities. On April 29, 2025, we 
published the ``Insights Condition and Maintenance of Certification 
Enforcement Discretion Notice,'' \63\ in which we stated we had 
exercised the following enforcement discretion:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \62\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025-02345/unleashing-prosperity-through-deregulation.
    \63\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/insights-condition-and-maintenance-certification-enforcement-discretion.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

     ASTP/ONC will not exercise its direct review authority 
under 45 CFR 170.580 for any non-conformity, potential or actual, that 
arises solely from a health IT developer not complying with 45 CFR 
170.407(b) except for reporting requirements related to the ``use of 
FHIR in apps through certified health IT'' measure (45 CFR 
170.407(a)(3)(iv)). Stated another way, ASTP/ONC only expects that 
health IT developers will report on the ``use of FHIR in apps through 
certified health IT'' measure (Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) 
beginning in July of 2027 and (a)(3)(iv)(C) beginning in July 2028).
     ASTP/ONC will not conclude that an ONC-ACB has failed to 
adhere to 45 CFR 170.523(u), find a violation of 45 CFR 170.560(a), or 
take any enforcement action under 45 CFR 170.565 against an ONC-ACB if 
an ONC-ACB confirms that the only measure under 45 CFR 170.407(b) for 
which a health IT developer submits responses is the ``use of FHIR in 
apps through certified health IT'' measure (45 CFR 170.407(a)(3)(iv)).
    We stated that this enforcement discretion will be in effect 
beginning on July 1, 2027, and will remain in effect until HHS 
completes a deregulatory action to remove or revise 45 CFR 170.407 and 
170.523(u). Therefore, in this proposed rule, we propose to remove the 
following measures in Sec.  170.407(a)(3):
     Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(i), Individuals' access to electronic 
health information through certified health IT;
     Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(ii), Consolidated clinical document 
architecture (C-CDA) problems, medications, and allergies 
reconciliation and incorporation through certified health IT;
     Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(iii), Applications supported through 
certified health IT;
     Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(v), Use of FHIR bulk data access 
through certified health IT;
     Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(vi), Immunization administrations 
electronically submitted

[[Page 61004]]

to immunization information systems through certified health IT; and
     Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(vii), Immunization history and 
forecasts through certified health IT.
    Note, given this proposal, we propose to make conforming edits to 
the list structure in Sec.  170.407(a)(3) to revise the ``use of FHIR 
in apps through certified health IT'' as paragraph (i) instead of (iv). 
In addition, we propose to remove corresponding references to the 
removed measures in Sec.  170.407(b) as we only expect that health IT 
developers would report on the ``use of FHIR in apps through certified 
health IT'' measure in the newly designated Sec.  170.407(a)(3)(i), 
specifically, paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) and (B) beginning July of 2027 
and (a)(3)(i)(C) beginning in July 2028. We believe our proposal to 
remove the measures listed above reduces cost and burden to the public.
    Our proposals ensure that the Insights Condition is aligned with 
other proposed policies and changes to the Certification Program that 
prioritize exchange using FHIR-based APIs. Among the measures that 
related to FHIR-based APIs, the ``use of FHIR in apps through certified 
health IT'' provides the most valuable insights related to 
implementation and use of FHIR. We welcome comments on these proposals.
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1346), we finalized the Insights 
Condition reporting frequency to annually for any Health IT Module that 
has or has had an active certification to Sec.  170.407(b)(1) during 
the prior six months. We propose to revise Sec.  170.407(b)(1) to 
clarify that a developer must provide an annual response to the 
Insights Condition of Certification if they had at least one actively 
certified Health IT Module as of January 1 of the reporting period 
(i.e., start of the data collection year) and remain certified under 
the Certification Program at the time of submission (i.e., July of the 
following year). We understand that Health IT Modules can be certified 
and withdrawn in cycles; however, this proposal would make clear that 
we expect health IT developers of certified health IT to be accountable 
for any data collected during the calendar-year (CY) data collection 
period, which begins January 1, regardless of how many months the 
certification remained active. For example, a developer of certified 
health IT that has a Health IT Module certified to Sec.  170.315(g)(10) 
for only the first three months of CY 2026 would report data reflecting 
use during this three-month period even though their Health IT Module 
was withdrawn or otherwise no longer certified for the remaining nine 
months of CY 2026.
    This also applies to newer versions of certified health IT 
leveraging inherited certified status (ICS). We expect that developers 
of certified health IT requesting ICS for newer versions would include 
data for all applicable certified health IT, including newer versions 
in scope of the Insights Condition requirements as of January 1, at the 
start of the data collection reporting period. We note that developers 
of certified health IT would not be expected to separate their 
certified health IT, in scope of ICS, by versions when submitting their 
response. This has always been the expectation from what we finalized 
in the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1348).
    We propose to revise the name of Sec.  170.407 (Insights Condition 
and Maintenance of Certification) to simply ``Insights.'' This proposed 
change is intended to ensure consistency and uniformity across all the 
Conditions and Maintenance of Certification in subpart D of 45 CFR part 
170. We welcome comments on our proposals.
Technical Updates in Measure Specification Sheets
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1313), we stated that while the 
substantive requirements for each measure are defined in rulemaking, we 
determined that measure specification sheets are a logical and 
accessible method for the public to also view the technical 
specification that supports those requirements, and that this is 
consistent with the approach used by other HHS programs related to 
measure specifications (e.g., CMS Electronic Clinical Quality Measures 
(CMS eCQMs)). Additionally, the measure specification sheets provide 
granular definitions and other information needed to operationalize the 
metrics to ensure they are implemented in a consistent manner across 
health IT developers.
    We also stated that we intend to provide up to date measure 
specification sheets to assist with the regulated community's 
understanding of the finalized measures and metric calculations (89 FR 
1313). In January 2025, we provided developers of certified health IT 
updated measure specification sheets for certain measures finalized in 
the HTI-1 Final Rule, with the flexibility to implement either version 
2 or version 4 of the measure specification sheets for the first year 
of reporting.\64\ We note that this flexibility is only for the first 
year of reporting (until July 2027) and that we expect developers to 
comply with the most up to date version of the measure specification 
sheets provided at www.healthIT.gov in subsequent years.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \64\ https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/page/2025-05/insights_measure_spec_sheet_4_fact_sheet_v03.2_508.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

E. ONC Health IT Certification Program Administrative Requirements

1. Principles of Proper Conduct for ONC-ACBs
    Under the ``principles of proper conduct (PoPCs) for ONC-ACBs'' in 
Sec.  170.523, we require ONC-ACBs to provide ASTP/ONC a ``certified 
product listing'' in Sec.  170.523(f) which is a current list of Health 
IT Modules that have been certified. We propose to revise Sec.  
170.523(f)(1)(viii) to no longer require ONC-ACBs to provide test data 
versions used and whether any test data was altered for the 
certification criterion or criteria to which the Health IT Module has 
been certified. With this proposed revision, we would still require the 
test procedure and test tool version used. Through our CHPL, we have 
tracked user access to the test data versions used and have found 
engagement to be very infrequent. In addition, an analysis of Health IT 
Modules in the CHPL indicates that the majority of developers do not 
employ custom data when conducting certification testing but instead 
utilize the ASTP/ONC-provided test data. Due to low user engagement and 
little variance from the use of ASTP/ONC-provided test data, we believe 
documenting the test data provides little value to the public and 
represents additional administrative burden for both health IT 
developers and ONC-ACBs. We believe this proposed revision to remove 
this requirement aligns with our goals to reduce burden for both health 
IT developers and ONC-ACBs.
    We propose to make conforming revisions to the PoPCs for ONC-ACBs 
in Sec.  170.523 by removing cross-references to certain certification 
criteria that we propose to remove in this proposed rule. Specifically, 
we propose to remove and reserve Sec.  170.523(f)(1)(ix) through (xi) 
which reference the ``privacy and security'' certification criteria 
(Sec.  170.315(d)), the ``quality management system'' certification 
criterion (Sec.  170.315(g)(4)), and the ``accessibility-centered 
design'' certification criterion (Sec.  170.315(g)(5)). We also propose 
to remove and reserve Sec.  170.523(f)(1)(xix), which references the 
``safety enhanced

[[Page 61005]]

design'' certification criterion (Sec.  170.315(g)(3)). We also propose 
to remove and reserve Sec.  170.523(f)(1)(xxi) because this section 
includes a reference to Sec.  170.315(b)(11)(vi) related to 
intervention risk management practices and we propose to remove Sec.  
170.315(b)(11)(vi) earlier in this proposed rule.
    Consistent with the proposals related to the Real World Testing 
Condition and Maintenance of Certification in Sec.  170.405, we propose 
to remove the ONC-ACB review and confirmation process for real world 
testing plans in Sec.  170.523(p)(1) and the reference to submit real 
world testing plans in Sec.  170.523(p)(3). We welcome comments on our 
proposals.
2. Health IT Module Certification
    We propose to revise the ``Health IT Module dependent criteria'' in 
Sec.  170.550(g) by removing Sec.  170.550(g)(1) through (4) to conform 
with our proposals to remove certain certification criteria related to 
privacy and security, and design and performance. We also propose to 
renumber the remaining paragraphs in Sec.  170.550(g)(5) and (g)(6) to 
(g)(1) and (g)(2), respectively. We propose to remove Sec.  170.550(h) 
``privacy and security certification framework'' and Sec.  170.550(j) 
``direct project transport method'' to also conform with our proposals 
to remove certification criteria in Sec.  170.315(d) and Sec.  
170.315(h).
    Lastly, we propose to revise Sec.  170.550(e) ``standards updates'' 
to correct a cross-reference from ``Sec.  171.405(b)(7) or (8)'' to 
``Sec.  170.405(b)(7) or (8).'' In the Cures Act Final Rule, we adopted 
Sec.  170.550(e) ``standards updates'' requiring ONC-ACBs to provide an 
option for certification of Health IT Modules consistent with SVAP to 
one or more of the certification criteria referenced in real world 
testing requirements in Sec.  170.405(a) based on newer versions of 
standards (85 FR 25952). However, in the regulatory text we erroneously 
amended Sec.  170.550(e) to require ONC-ACBs provide an option for 
certification of Health IT Modules consistent with Sec.  171.405(b)(7) 
or (8). We intended, as indicated by the preamble, to adopt the 
reference to the real world testing requirements in 45 CFR part 170 
instead of 45 CFR part 171 Information Blocking. Therefore, we propose 
to revise Sec.  170.550(e) to reference the SVAP requirements in Sec.  
170.405(b)(7) and (8). We welcome comments on our proposals.
3. Certification to Newer Versions of Certain Standards
    We propose to revise the ``certification to newer versions of 
certain standards'' in Sec.  170.555 by removing references to the term 
``Complete EHR'' as it is no longer relevant in our Certification 
Program. Retaining the references may cause confusion for the public 
because the ability to maintain ``Complete EHR'' certification was only 
permitted with health IT certified to the 2014 Edition certification 
criteria, and the ``Complete EHR'' concept was discontinued for the 
2015 Edition (80 FR 62719). The Cures Act Final Rule removed the 2014 
Edition certification criteria in Sec.  170.314 and references to 
``Complete EHR'', and in the HTI-1 Final Rule, we removed the 
``Complete EHR'' language from all reference points in Sec. Sec.  
170.523 and 170.524 (89 FR 1209 through 1210). We continued to remove 
the remaining references to ``Complete EHR'' in the HTI-2 TEFCA Final 
Rule (89 FR 101775) within subpart E of 45 CFR part 170, and we 
finalized our proposal to remove the term ``Complete EHR'' including in 
Sec.  170.555(b)(2). However, we inadvertently excluded amendatory 
instructions to revise Sec.  170.555(b)(2) in the final rule. 
Therefore, we propose to revise Sec.  170.555(b)(2) to remove the 
reference to ``Complete EHR.'' We welcome comments on our proposal.
4. Effect of Revocation on the Certifications Issued to Health IT 
Module(s)
    We propose to revise the title of Sec.  170.570 from ``Effect of 
revocation on the certifications issued to Complete EHRs and EHR 
Module(s)'' to ``Effect of revocation on the certifications issued to 
Health IT Module(s).'' As discussed above, the term ``Complete EHRs'' 
is no longer a relevant term in our Certification Program and retaining 
it may cause confusion for the public. Therefore, we propose to revise 
the title of Sec.  170.570 to further align with our removals of the 
outdated ``Complete EHR'' terminology. We welcome comments on our 
proposal.

IV. Information Blocking (Part 171)

    Comments received in response to the CMS-ASTP/ONC Request for 
Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (90 FR 21034) (CMS-ASTP/ONC 
RFI) and other RFIs, such as the Federal Trade Commission's Request for 
Public Comment Regarding Reducing Anti-Competitive Regulatory Barriers 
(FTC-2025-0028), expressed concerns about several exceptions to the 
information blocking rule as well as general concerns about the 
exceptions. Innovators and patient advocates indicated that some of the 
exceptions as currently codified may be too broad or are being misused 
in an anti-competitive or obstructive way. For example, some commenters 
suggested narrowing or eliminating the exceptions for infeasibility, 
security, and fees. This proposed rule aims to address several 
prominent themes among the concerns raised by commenters through 
proposals below. Each of these proposed revisions to the information 
blocking regulations would be effective, if finalized, on the effective 
date of a subsequent final rule. We are also considering further 
actions such as future rulemaking, guidance, and educational outreach 
in response to other RFI comments and feedback from stakeholders.

A. ``Access'' and ``Use'' Definitions

    In the Cures Act Final Rule, we finalized definitions of 
``access,'' ``exchange,'' and ``use'' (85 FR 25805). We explained that 
the concepts of access, exchange, and use are closely related, and 
noted that EHI cannot be used unless it can be accessed, and that this 
often requires that EHI be exchanged among different individuals or 
entities and through various technological means (85 FR 25805). Our 
references to various technological means always included access via 
automated means, such as robotic process automation (commonly referred 
to as the use of ``bots'') \65\ and autonomous artificial intelligence 
systems (``agentic artificial intelligence'' or ``agentic AI''),\66\ 
but it has come to

[[Page 61006]]

our attention through RFI comments, our own market observations, and 
stakeholder interactions that both actors and those who seek to access, 
exchange, or use EHI would appreciate explicit clarity regarding 
automated means of access, exchange, or use of EHI, particularly with 
such means as robotic process automation (commonly referenced as 
``RPA'' or ``bots'') and autonomous artificial intelligence systems 
(commonly referenced in the field as ``agentic AI'').\67\ Therefore, we 
propose to add language to the ``access'' and ``use'' definitions at 45 
CFR 171.102. We propose to explicitly codify that access means the 
ability or means necessary to make EHI available for exchange or use, 
including by automation technologies such as robotic process automation 
and autonomous artificial intelligence systems. Similarly, we propose 
to explicitly codify that ``use'' means the ability for EHI, once 
accessed or exchanged through whatever technological means, to be 
understood and acted upon, including, without limitation, by automation 
technologies such as autonomous artificial intelligence systems and 
robotic process automation.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \65\ Robotic process automation is software technology in which 
software ``bots'' mimic human actions to accomplish computer-based 
activities, automating otherwise-manual tasks or processes that are 
structured, repetitive, and follow a set of established rules. 
Illustrative types of tasks include, without limitation, data 
retrieval, data entry, and transaction processing (e.g., customer 
returns of products, appointment scheduling). See, e.g., Moore, 
Sara, 2018, ``The bots are coming: robotic process automation saves 
DLA time, money'' (https://www.dla.mil/About-DLA/News/News-Article-View/Article/1704350/the-bots-are-coming-robotic-process-automation-saves-dla-time-money/ money/).
    \66\ Autonomous artificial intelligence systems that are 
designed to execute complex tasks autonomously or with little human 
involvement to accomplish pre-determined goals is often referred to 
a ``agentic AI'' because these systems' capabilities involve them 
acting independently or having ability or means (``agency'') to act 
independently (analogous to a human ``having agency'' or power to do 
something) or function as an agent of its user. See, e.g., Merriam-
Webster ``agentic'' (https://www.merriam-webster.com/slang/
agentic#:~:text=What%20does%20agentic%20mean?,(%E2%80%9Chaving%20agen
cy%22)). See also, e.g., Acharya, et al, 2025, ``Agentic AI: 
Autonomous Intelligence for Complex Goals--A Comprehensive Survey,'' 
IEEEAccess, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3532853 
(https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=10849561).
    \67\ We believe ``artificial intelligence'' is commonly and 
generally understood to mean a machine-based system that can, for a 
given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, 
recommendations, or decisions influencing real or virtual 
environments as well as the capability of a computer, computer 
system, or set of algorithms to imitate intelligent human behavior. 
See, e.g., National Institute of Standards and Technology Computer 
Security Research Center glossary entries for ``artificial 
intelligence'' (https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/artificial_intelligence) and ``artificial intelligence system'' 
(https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/artificial_intelligence_system). See also Merriam-Webster dictionary 
definition of ``artificial intelligence'' (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/artificial%20intelligence).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In addition to the discussion in the Cures Act Final Rule regarding 
individuals or entities accessing, exchanging, and using EHI (85 FR 
25805), we also discussed the concept of automated access in the HTI-1 
Final Rule. Specifically, we noted that some entities may provide data 
services and that such actions are considered access, exchange, or use 
regardless of the route used to request, access, or receive data (89 FR 
1363). The heterogeneity in how individuals and entities may access, 
exchange, or use EHI as well as the potential for significantly 
increased use of automated means to improve efficiency \68\ further 
contributes to a conclusion that actors and those who interact with 
them would benefit from explicit regulatory text specifying that the 
access, exchange, and use definitions are not limited to manual 
processes but apply equally to access, exchange and use of EHI that 
occurs via automated means including, without limitation, autonomous 
artificial intelligence systems and that an actor interfering with such 
access, exchange, or use may implicate the information blocking 
definition.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \68\ Moore, Sara, 2018, ``The bots are coming: robotic process 
automation saves DLA time, money'' (https://www.dla.mil/About-DLA/News/News-Article-View/Article/1704350/the-bots-are-coming-robotic-process-automation-saves-dla-time-money/).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We are also considering to similarly revise the ``exchange'' 
definition in Sec.  171.102. We propose to revise the ``exchange'' 
definition in addition to the proposed revisions to the ``access'' and 
``use'' definitions, as an alternative proposal to only revising the 
``access'' and ``use'' definitions. Under this alternative proposal, we 
propose that the meaning of ``exchange'' includes, without limitation, 
the ability for EHI to be transmitted, through use of automation 
technologies (e.g., robotic process automation, autonomous artificial 
intelligence systems) or otherwise, between and among different 
technologies, systems, platforms, or networks. We seek comments on 
these proposals, including perspectives on whether actors and those who 
interact with actors would find these explicit regulatory updates 
helpful.
    We remind readers that, as we have explained in prior rules, the 
information blocking regulations are designed to operate in a manner 
consistent with the framework of the HIPAA Privacy Rule and other laws 
providing privacy rights for patients (85 FR 25812). Any actor (as 
defined in 45 CFR 171.102) that is also subject to any provision(s) in 
45 CFR parts 160, 162, or 164 must continue to comply with such 
provision(s) when and to the extent such provisions of the HIPAA Rules 
are applicable to the actor's conduct (89 FR 1380), such as with 
providing access, exchange, or use of protected EHI.

B. Infeasibility Exception Revisions

    We propose and seek comments on revisions to two separate 
conditions of the Infeasibility Exception (45 CFR 171.204). 
Specifically, we propose to remove the ``third party seeking 
modification use'' condition (Sec.  171.204(a)(3)) and to revise or 
remove the ``manner exception exhausted'' condition (Sec.  
171.204(a)(4)).
1. Third Party Seeking Modification Use Condition
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we finalized the ``third party seeking 
modification use'' condition of the Infeasibility Exception (Sec.  
171.204(a)(3)). We explained that when this condition applies and the 
overall exception is met, an actor's practice of not fulfilling a 
request for use of EHI in order to modify EHI, including but not 
limited to creation and deletion functionality, will not be considered 
information blocking (89 FR 1200 and 89 FR 1376 through 1380). As 
finalized by the HTI-1 Final Rule and currently codified, Sec.  
171.204(a)(3) applies to a request to enable use of EHI in order to 
modify EHI, provided that the request for such use is not from a health 
care provider that is a HIPAA covered entity (as defined in 45 CFR 
160.103) requesting such use from an actor that is its business 
associate (as defined in 45 CFR 160.103). Thus, the condition is not 
available when a health care provider that is also a HIPAA covered 
entity requests (directly, or through another business associate of the 
health care provider) such use of EHI from an actor who is the health 
care provider's business associate (88 FR 23866, 89 FR 1380).
    HTI-1 Proposed Rule commenters expressed concern that certain 
actors, such as health IT developers of certified health IT, may seek 
to misuse the proposal to restrict access to EHI in an overly broad 
manner (89 FR 1377). Of these commenters, some expressed concern that 
the proposal could potentially inhibit care coordination by making it 
too easy for an actor holding EHI to simply refuse modification use 
requests from third parties who also furnish services to the same 
patient(s) (89 FR 1377).
    Commenters on the HTI-1 Proposed Rule stated that the limitation to 
this condition is not broad enough, and that ASTP/ONC should expand the 
limitation of this condition to also apply when the actor's customers 
are not HIPAA covered entities; or are not health care providers, but 
are maintaining EHI in systems licensed by an actor (89 FR 1379). For 
reasons stated in response to these comments in the HTI-1 Final Rule 
(89 FR 1379), we did not expand the finalized exclusion from 
applicability of the condition but noted that we may consider amending 
the condition in the future (89 FR 1379).
    In the HTI-2 Proposed Rule, we proposed two revisions to narrow the 
application and use of the third party seeking modification use 
condition. First, we proposed to narrow the

[[Page 61007]]

applicability of the condition by changing the words ``health care 
provider'' to ``covered entity as defined in 45 CFR 160.103'' (89 FR 
63625), which would expand the circumstances in which the condition 
could not be used. We noted that this proposed expansion of the 
exclusion would encompass requests from all covered entities to their 
business associates (89 FR 63625). Second, we also proposed to exclude 
from applicability of the condition requests from any health care 
provider (as defined in Sec.  171.102) who is not a HIPAA covered 
entity (as defined in 45 CFR 160.103) but who is requesting 
modification use from an actor whose activities would make the actor a 
business associate of that same health care provider if that health 
care provider were a HIPAA covered entity (89 FR 63625). This was to 
align with the definition of ``actor'' under the information blocking 
regulations.
    Although comments on the HTI-2 Proposed Rule's potential revisions 
to the Infeasibility Exception, including but not limited to the third 
party seeking modification use condition, were generally supportive, 
some commenters once again raised concerns about the potential for 
actors to misuse the Infeasibility Exception and recommended that we 
implement measures to mitigate misuse. For example, one commenter 
suggested requiring an independent review and appeals process for 
actors' claims of infeasibility as well as the mandated public 
reporting of all infeasibility claims to hold actors accountable.
    We received a relatively small number of comments specific to the 
proposed narrowing of the third party seeking modification use 
condition (Sec.  171.204(a)(3)). These comments indicate a much more 
mixed response to this specific proposal than to the Infeasibility 
Exception. Several commenters supported the proposed narrowing of the 
third party seeking modification use condition's application. Several 
commenters discussed the proposal as an expansion rather than a 
contraction of the condition's application, indicating a 
misunderstanding of the proposal. Several other commenters requested 
additional clarification to understand the revised condition or even to 
fully comment on the proposal. For example, one commenter stated that 
the proposal was vague, and asked ASTP/ONC to clarify the proposal's 
intended function and scope. Another commenter asked for examples of 
specific types of scenarios so that they could fully understand the 
proposal. Several other commenters, both supportive of the proposal's 
intent and critical of it for various reasons, suggested actors would 
need extensive guidance to properly implement the third party seeking 
modification use condition.
    We have evaluated not only our previously proposed revisions to the 
condition but also the third party seeking modification use condition 
(Sec.  171.204(a)(3)) in light of: the comments we received in response 
to the proposal in the HTI-2 Proposed Rule; our observation of the 
health information ecosystem and health IT market as they stand today; 
the intent of the information blocking regulations, including what are 
reasonable and necessary practices for not sharing EHI; and current HHS 
policy priorities. We now believe the condition as a whole is 
unnecessary and that removing it will better support the access, 
exchange, and use of EHI and the goals we set out in the Cures Act 
Final Rule to unleash innovation and competition for the improvement of 
health outcomes and lower health care costs for all Americans.
    In the HTI-1 Proposed Rule, we solicited comment on whether the 
(then-proposed) third party seeking modification use condition should 
be of limited duration (88 FR 23867). We specifically requested comment 
on whether ASTP/ONC should consider proposing, in the future, that the 
condition be eliminated if, at some point, health IT is capable of 
supporting third-party modification use of EHI by any party with a 
legal right to do so (or no legal prohibition against it), with no or 
minimal infeasibility or other concerns (88 FR 23867). While the 
majority of comments on this subject stated either that the proposal 
should not have a sunset date, or that it would be premature to 
establish a sunset date at that time, two commenters stated that the 
condition should or could be eliminated in the future if technology is 
capable of supporting the aforementioned modification use of EHI, with 
no or minimal infeasibility or other concerns (89 FR 1378).
    We agreed in the HTI-1 Final Rule with those commenters who had 
indicated that it would be premature to establish at that time a sunset 
date for Sec.  171.204(a)(3) because the appropriateness of eliminating 
it depended on the continued development of health IT's capability to 
support lawful third-party modification use of EHI by any party and 
with no or minimal infeasibility or other concerns (89 FR 1378). 
However, we also said that if advances in health IT capabilities or 
other changes in the interoperability and information sharing 
environment indicated to us that the condition should be modified or 
sunset, we would anticipate proposing such a change in a future 
rulemaking (89 FR 1378).
    We have observed substantial growth in technical approaches that 
enable efficient, appropriately secure modification use as well as two-
way exchange interactions between different developers' systems to 
support modification use of EHI since HHS announced the HTI-1 Final 
Rule in December, 2023.\69\ These approaches appear to be rapidly 
maturing. As we increasingly observe modern, innovative approaches 
efficiently achieving two-way interoperability, we no longer believe it 
is reasonable or necessary for an actor to dismiss as ``infeasible'' a 
request for such use from any requestor without engaging in information 
gathering or analysis to work through the available alternative 
manners. Thus, we now believe the time is ripe to propose to retire the 
third party seeking modification use condition. Removing the condition 
in its entirety is also the most efficient option to resolve concerns 
we have developed from public comments, market observations, and 
stakeholder interactions. As noted previously, we are concerned that 
some actors may be misapplying the condition or intentionally abusing 
customers' and third parties' misunderstandings of the condition or, in 
the case of business associates, the flexibility we provided for them 
to confirm whether a third-party modification use request is actually 
from their HIPAA-regulated health care provider customer.\70\ In 
particular, we are concerned that this condition is being abused by EHR 
developers to limit third parties, including other actual or potential 
business associates of the EHR developer's health care provider 
customer, from accessing or using a health care provider's EHR and 
relevant

[[Page 61008]]

EHI. This concern is extremely acute for us in that the ability for 
health care providers to use other innovative health IT to access and 
use the EHR has been a fundamental goal for Congress and HHS since we 
first proposed the information blocking regulations.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \69\ ``HHS Finalizes Rule to Advance Health IT Interoperability 
and Algorithm Transparency,'' news release posted Dec 13, 2023, at 
https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/12/13/hhs-finalizes-rule-to-advance-health-it-interoperability-and-algorithm-transparency.html. 
Archived content available at: https://us.pagefreezer.com/en-US/wa/browse/0a7f82bb-be6e-448a-ae11-373d22c37842?find-by-timestamp=2024-01-02T03:56:59Z&url=https:%2F%2Fwww.hhs.gov%2Fabout%2Fnews%2F2023%2F12%2F13%2Fhhs-finalizes-rule-to-advance-health-it-interoperability-and-algorithm-transparency.html×tamp=2024-01-02T03:43:14Z.
    \70\ See 89 FR 1380 discussion of flexibility for actors to 
structure communications and operating procedures as well as our 
statement that, for purposes of Sec.  171.204(a)(3), an actor may 
choose to verify that the modification use request came from the 
health care provider themselves or accept the third party's 
representation of a request as coming from a health care provider of 
which the actor is a business associate.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We are aware that actors may have concerns about third-party 
modifications relating to the confidentiality, integrity, or 
availability of EHI, or to the potential risks to patient safety 
arising from corrupt or misidentified patient data. We remind health 
care providers, other actors, patients, and others who may have such 
concerns that we have established exceptions designed for those types 
of concerns. For example, an actor may choose to satisfy the Security 
Exception (Sec.  171.203) where an actor has identified a specific 
threat that a request for access, exchange, or use poses to the 
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of EHI in an actor's 
systems. Similarly, an actor may choose to satisfy the Preventing Harm 
Exception (Sec.  171.201) if the actor knows or reasonably suspects 
specific data a third party seeks to write into the EHI the actor 
maintains to be misidentified or mismatched, corrupt due to technical 
failure, or erroneous for another reason. Actors may choose to satisfy 
other exceptions, where applicable, regardless of whether we finalize 
retirement of the third party seeking modification use condition of the 
Infeasibility Exception. We refer readers to subparts B, C, and D of 45 
CFR part 171 for the full conditions of each established information 
blocking exception as currently codified. However, we remind readers 
that for reasons discussed in Section IV.A.2 of this proposed rule, we 
propose to revise or remove the manner exception exhausted condition 
from the Infeasibility Exception (Sec.  171.204) and for reasons 
discussed in Section IV.D of this proposed rule, we propose to remove 
subpart D of 45 CFR 171: Exceptions That Involve Practices Related to 
Actors' Participation in The Trusted Exchange Framework and Common 
Agreement (TEFCA\SM.\).
    We also remind actors that, if we were to finalize this proposal to 
remove the third party seeking modification use condition, other 
conditions of the Infeasibility Exception, including the infeasible 
under the circumstances condition would continue to be available to 
actors. For example, the infeasible under the circumstances condition 
may apply to scenarios where enabling a third party to ``write'' data 
to an EHR system would be unduly burdensome on a health IT developer of 
certified health IT and its health care provider customers. As always, 
for any practice to be considered information blocking, it must be 
examined on a case-by-case basis in order to assess the specific facts 
and circumstances and determine whether the practice meets the 
information blocking definition (see Sec.  171.103, see also 
IB.FAQ46.1.2022FEB).\71\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \71\ https://www.healthit.gov/faq/how-would-any-claim-or-report-information-blocking-be-evaluated.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We note again, as we did in the HTI-1 Final Rule, that the third 
party seeking modification use condition does not imply or indicate any 
change to the HIPAA Rules (89 FR 1380). Any actor that is subject to 
any provision(s) in 45 CFR parts 160, 162, or 164 must continue to 
comply with such provision(s) when and to the extent such provisions of 
the HIPAA Rules are applicable to the actor's conduct (89 FR 1380).
    To preserve accuracy of references in existing information blocking 
educational materials to specific conditions of the Infeasibility 
Exception by CFR citation, we propose to remove and reserve 
subparagraph (3) within Sec.  171.204(a). We are not proposing at this 
time to redesignate any of the other conditions currently codified 
within Sec.  171.204(a), nor are we proposing to make any other changes 
to any of these conditions or the responding to requests condition in 
Sec.  171.204(b). We welcome comments on our proposal to remove the 
third party seeking modification use condition of the Infeasibility 
Exception.
2. Manner Exception Exhausted Condition
    In the HTI-1 Proposed Rule, we proposed to re-number the 
``infeasible under the circumstances'' condition of the Infeasibility 
Exception (45 CFR 171.204) and to codify at (a)(4) a new manner 
exception exhausted condition. We stated the proposed manner exception 
exhausted condition would apply where an actor is unable to fulfill a 
request for access, exchange, or use of EHI despite having exhausted 
the Manner Exception in Sec.  171.301 by offering all alternative 
manners in accordance with Sec.  171.301(b), so long as the actor does 
not currently provide to a substantial number of individuals or 
entities similarly situated to the requestor the same requested access, 
exchange, or use of the requested EHI (88 FR 23867). We noted that 
actors expressed concern about circumstances where the actor's 
inability to satisfy the Manner Exception's conditions rests solely on 
the requestor refusing to accept access, exchange, or use in any manner 
consistent with Sec.  171.301 and that fulfilling the request in the 
manner requested would require substantial technical or financial 
resources, or both, in the view of the actor, including significant 
opportunity costs (88 FR 23868). We noted that actors may have been 
experiencing a problematic level of uncertainty about whether they will 
be engaging in information blocking if they decline demands from 
requestors for non-standard, non-scalable solutions that they do not 
currently support. We noted that an actor might have experienced such 
uncertainty even after that actor had offered to provide access, 
exchange, or use of EHI in the same manner(s) the actor makes the EHI 
generally available to its customers or affiliates, and through other 
standards-based manners, consistent with Sec.  171.301--including 
offering terms for such manners that are consistent with the Fees 
(Sec.  171.302) and Licensing (Sec.  171.303) Exceptions (88 FR 23868). 
We indicated observing such uncertainty among actors with substantial 
skills and other resources to develop new, unique or unusual manners of 
supporting access, exchange, or use of EHI (88 FR 23868).
    We explained that the proposed manner exception exhausted condition 
would provide actors the option of satisfying the Infeasibility 
Exception without needing to assess whether they could theoretically or 
technically meet the requestor's particularized demands regarding the 
manner and/or the terms in which to achieve access, exchange, or use of 
requested EHI. We proposed that an actor could satisfy the 
Infeasibility Exception when the actor met the requirements of the 
Sec.  171.204(b) responding to requests condition and the three factors 
of manner exception exhausted condition were true:
    (i) The actor could not reach agreement with a requestor in 
accordance with Sec.  171.301(a) manner requested condition (as we have 
proposed it in this proposed rule) or was technically unable to fulfill 
a request for electronic health information in the manner requested;
    (ii) The actor offered all alternative manners ``in accordance 
with'' Sec.  171.301(b) alternative manner condition (as we have 
proposed it in this proposed rule) for the electronic health 
information requested but could not reach agreement with the requestor; 
and
    (iii) The actor does not provide the same access, exchange, or use 
of the requested electronic health information to a substantial number 
of individuals or entities that are similarly situated to the requester 
(88 FR 23869).

[[Page 61009]]

    We requested comments on all aspects of the proposal. In 
particular, in regards to the second factor, we asked whether an actor 
should have to offer access, exchange, or use in manners that would 
satisfy all three of the alternative manners in Sec.  171.301(b)(1) 
\72\ or if it should be sufficient for an actor to offer to fulfill the 
request in two manners that use content and transport standards 
published by the Federal Government or a standards-developing 
organization accredited by the American National Standards Institute; 
or by offering fulfillment in at least one such manner and an 
alternative machine-readable format consistent with Sec.  
171.301(b)(1)(iii) (88 FR 23869).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \72\ Here we are referring to Sec.  171.301(b)(2) as it was 
codified at the time the HTI-1 Proposed Rule published; re-
designation of paragraphs within Sec.  171.301 was proposed in that 
NPRM and finalized in the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1437, see also 89 
FR 1372).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Regarding the third factor, we asked whether the language provided 
adequate assurance that actors would not be able to misuse the Sec.  
171.204(a)(4) manner exception exhausted condition to avoid supplying 
some particular requestor(s) with manner(s) of access, exchange, or use 
of the requested EHI that would be more accurately characterized as 
generally available than as new, unique, or unusual (88 FR 23870). In 
particular, we noted that the third factor is intended to ensure the 
condition cannot be satisfied where a manner (mechanisms, 
interoperability elements) is currently supported for a substantial 
number of individuals or entities but the responding actor wants to 
deny that mechanism to particular requestor(s) for inappropriate 
reasons, such as to discriminate against competitors, potential 
competitors, or those the responding actor may be concerned could use 
the resultant access, exchange, or use of EHI to furnish, develop, or 
facilitate development of products or services that could compete with 
those of the actor (88 FR 23870). We asked if the flexibility of the 
``substantial number'' factor would better recognize variations in 
actors' operational contexts, including their organization sizes, as 
compared to the clarity provided by a simple fixed threshold of ``more 
than one,'' or even just one other entity. We also sought comment on 
whether we should include ``similarly situated'' requestors or if such 
a phrase risked allowing actors to discriminate based on requestor size 
or type (88 FR 23870).
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we finalized the manner exception 
exhausted condition of the Infeasibility Exception (Sec.  
171.204(a)(4)). In finalizing the manner exception exhausted condition, 
we explained that when an actor either technically cannot provide the 
access, exchange, or use of EHI in the manner requested, or the actor 
and requestor cannot reach agreeable terms on the manner requested, the 
actor must attempt to fulfill the request using the alternative manners 
in Sec.  171.301(b) in order to exhaust the Manner Exception (89 FR 
1381). Under the Manner Exception, for any alternative manner, the 
requestor must either specify the manner they would accept (Sec.  
171.301(b)(1)(i) and (ii)) or specifically agree with the machine-
readable format that they would accept (Sec.  171.301(b)(1)(iii)). We 
stated that in situations where an actor offers at least two 
alternative manners and the requestor does not specify or agree to 
receive the EHI via the offered alternative manners (as may be the case 
if the requestor does not want to receive the EHI in such a manner or 
cannot receive the EHI in such a manner), an actor may seek to satisfy 
the manner exception exhausted condition of the Infeasibility Exception 
(89 FR 1381). In other words, under the manner exception exhausted 
condition, it would not matter whether the requestor specified the 
alternative manner, which is a requirement to meet the Manner Exception 
under Sec.  171.301(b)(1)(i) and (ii). And the manner exception 
exhausted condition of the Infeasibility Exception could be met if the 
requestor did not agree with the actor upon an offered alternative 
machine-readable format, which is a requirement to meet the Manner 
Exception under Sec.  171.301(b)(1)(iii).
    The manner exception exhausted condition of the Infeasibility 
Exception, as finalized in the HTI-1 Final Rule, considers three 
factors. First, it requires that the actor could not reach agreement 
with a requestor in accordance with Sec.  171.301(a) or was technically 
unable to fulfill a request for EHI in the manner requested (Sec.  
171.204(a)(4)(i), 89 FR 1384 through 85). Second, the condition 
requires that the actor offered at least two alternative manners in 
accordance with Sec.  171.301(b) (whether or not the requestor 
identified the alternative manner and/or agreed to it), one of which 
must use either technology certified to standard(s) adopted in part 170 
(Sec.  171.301(b)(1)(i)) or published content and transport standards 
consistent with Sec.  171.301(b)(1)(ii) (see Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(ii)). 
The third factor requires that the actor does not provide the same 
access, exchange, or use of the requested EHI to a substantial number 
of individuals or entities that are similarly situated to the requester 
(Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(iii), 89 FR 1385 through 86). We explained what 
``provide'' means in this context (89 FR 1385 through 86), as well as 
``substantial number'' (89 FR 1384 through 85) and ``similarly 
situated'' (89 FR 1386).
    Specifically, we noted that ``similarly situated'' would serve to 
indicate that different specific individuals or entities within a class 
of such individuals or entities who are similarly situated to one 
another should be treated in a consistent and non-discriminatory 
manner, and that it is not our intent for the ``individuals or entities 
that are similarly situated to the requester'' criterion of the 
condition to be used in a way that differentiates the same access to 
EHI simply based on the requestor's status, such as an individual 
(e.g., a patient) or entity (e.g., a healthcare system) (89 FR 1386). 
We explained that, in determining whether a requestor is similarly 
situated, an actor shall not discriminate based on certain factors, 
including whether the requestor is an individual as defined in Sec.  
171.202(a)(2), the health care provider type and size, and whether the 
requestor is a competitor of the actor or whether providing such 
access, exchange, or use, would facilitate competition with the actor 
(89 FR 1386). We finalized these factors in Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(iv).
    The manner exception exhausted condition of the Infeasibility 
Exception was intended to provide clarity and flexibility for actors. 
We did not intend for it to cover any unreasonable or unnecessary 
practice that would allow an actor to avoid providing the access, 
exchange, or use of EHI in a manner already supported by that actor.
    Based on comments received in response to the CMS-ASTP/ONC RFI, 
questions received through the ASTP/ONC Health IT Feedback and Inquiry 
Portal,\73\ and other stakeholder feedback, we are concerned that 
actors may be abusing the exception in various ways, including claiming 
to requestors that the manner exception exhausted condition applies 
when the actor has not, in fact, explored whether they could reach 
agreeable terms to fulfill a request in the manner requested, or has 
not attempted to fulfill the request in at least two other manners 
consistent with the Sec.  171.301(b) alternative manner, or both. 
Additionally, we are concerned that certain terms and criteria of the 
condition (i.e., ``same,'' ``substantial number'' and ``similarly 
situated'') are being misused to deny requestors access to existing 
APIs and other manners of access, exchange, and use that have

[[Page 61010]]

been granted to other parties. To address these concerns, we now 
propose to modify the condition to eliminate the potential for misuse 
and abuse.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \73\ https://healthit.gov/feedback.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Specifically, we propose (in Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(ii)) to increase 
the minimum number of alternative manners required to be considered to 
have ``exhausted'' the Manner Exception from two to ``all,'' in line 
with the original (HTI-1 Proposed Rule) proposal for the condition. In 
referring to ``all alternative manners,'' we do not mean all possible 
manners of exchange other than the manner requested. Rather, we 
specifically mean those manners that are set forth in subparagraph (i), 
(ii), or (iii) of Sec.  171.301(b)(1). We seek comment on whether, and 
to what extent, actors and those who request EHI access, exchange, or 
use from actors would find useful a further reiteration in the text of 
the condition that each alternative manner must be attempted consistent 
with Sec.  171.301(b) (the alternative manner condition of the Manner 
Exception) in order to satisfy the manner exception exhausted condition 
of the Infeasibility Exception (Sec.  171.204(a)(4)). This addition 
would further reiterate what the regulation text says at present and 
what has been stated in the preamble of the HTI-1 Final Rule (see, 
e.g., 89 FR 1383). Further, we remind actors that a manner that meets 
any sub-paragraph within Sec.  171.301(b)(1) must be consistent with 
the entirety of Sec.  171.302(b), which includes Sec.  171.301(b)(2), 
under which any fees that would be charged by the actor in relation to 
fulfilling the request must satisfy the Fees Exception (Sec.  171.302), 
and Sec.  171.301(b)(3), under which any license of interoperability 
elements granted by the actor in relation to fulfilling the request 
satisfy the Licensing Exception (Sec.  171.303).
    We also welcome comment on whether revisions to the wording of 
Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(ii) would help ensure an actor can only claim to a 
requestor that fulfilling the request is ``infeasible'' under the 
manner exception exhausted condition when the actor has exhausted the 
Manner Exception, as we intend. We welcome comment on whether any such 
revisions could also discourage actors from attempting to abuse the 
condition. We also propose to incorporate language into the regulation 
text consistent with the preamble of the HTI-1 Final Rule, as discussed 
above, to emphasize a distinction between the Manner Exception (Sec.  
171.301) and the manner exception exhausted condition (Sec.  
171.204(a)(4)): satisfying the manner exception exhausted condition 
does not require that the requestor identify the alternative manner or 
agree to it, which is required for actors to be able to fully meet the 
Manner Exception.
    In Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(iii), we propose three revisions. First, we 
proposed to replace ``same'' with ``analogous'' as it refers to the 
access, exchange, or use of EHI. We discussed in the HTI-1 Final Rule 
how ``same'' meant the same requested access, exchange, or use, 
including the ``same'' manners of EHI access, exchange, or use, as 
provided to others. We still intend to include the concept of ``the 
same'' access, exchange, or use of EHI in consideration of whether the 
provision is met, but we believe the more expansive term ``analogous'' 
is more appropriate. We believe using ``analogous'' access, exchange, 
or use in comparison to what the actor provides to other individual(s) 
or entity(ies) is a basis less subject to manipulation than ``same,'' 
which some actors may argue equates to ``identical'' access, exchange, 
or use of EHI. We do not intend for ``same'' to be interpreted in a way 
that could be limiting and potentially manipulated to deny access, 
exchange, or use. For example, this condition would not be available to 
an actor when a requestor requests API access with certain features, 
such as ``write'' capabilities or filtering functionality, that the 
actor provides to other entities. Assuming for the sake of this example 
that the actor is not prohibited by applicable law from providing the 
requested access, exchange, or use of the requested EHI to the 
requestor,\74\ the request is not infeasible under any other condition 
in Sec.  171.204 (e.g., Sec.  171.204(a)(1) uncontrollable events) and 
that no other exception in subpart B of part 171 (e.g., the Privacy 
Exception) applies to the particular facts and circumstances, we would 
expect such access would be provided to the requestor without 
unnecessary delay. In providing such access, exchange, or use, an actor 
who seeks certainty that their practices in fulfilling the requested 
access, exchange, or use of EHI via the API with certain features will 
not be considered information blocking can align their practices with 
other relevant exception(s), such as the Fees Exception and, as 
necessary, the Licensing Exception.\75\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \74\ Where applicable law prohibits an actor from fulfilling a 
requestor's requested access, exchange, or use of requested EHI, the 
actor need not satisfy an exception to have certainty that complying 
with the law to which they are subject will not be considered 
``information blocking.'' Where applicable law, such as the HIPAA 
Privacy Rule, permits use or disclosure (access, exchange, or use) 
of the requested EHI only when certain requirements 
(``preconditions'') are met, the Precondition Not Satisfied (45 CFR 
171.202(b)) sub-exception of the Privacy Exception outlines a 
framework for actors to follow so that the actors' practices of not 
fulfilling requests to access, exchange, or use EHI would not 
constitute information blocking when a precondition of applicable 
law has not been satisfied.
    \75\ ``Interoperability element'' is defined in Sec.  171.102. 
Additional information about this definition is available in the 
preamble of the Cures Act Final Rule at 85 FR 25806 through 25808.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Similarly, the manner exception exhausted condition (as Sec.  
171.204(a)(4) is currently codified or as we propose in this proposed 
rule to modify it) would not be available to an actor if the actor 
makes an API available to entities or individuals and a requestor 
attempts to access the API through automated means (such as robotic 
process automation and agentic AI).\76\ In such cases, the access 
achieved by automated means would be the same and analogous to an 
entity or individual accessing the API using more manual means. 
Accordingly, we believe replacing ``the same'' with ``analogous'' is a 
better basis for comparing the request with what the actor provides to 
other individuals or entities, including those who may use different 
automated means, or may use manual means. We believe this revision 
aligns more with the intent of the statutory information blocking 
definition (PHSA section 3022(a)(1)), which focuses on practices 
``likely to interfere with, prevent, or materially discourage access, 
exchange, or use of electronic health information'' without any 
specification of, or limitation to, access, exchange, or use of EHI 
through particular mechanisms, technologies, or workflows.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \76\ Please see section IV.A of this preamble, above, for 
descriptions of robotic process automation and agentic AI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Second and third, we propose: changing the ``substantial number'' 
element to ``any,'' by which we mean at least one individual or entity; 
and removing consideration of whether such individual or entity is 
similarly situated to the requestor. The proposed revisions to Sec.  
171.204(a)(4)(iii) would explicitly exclude from application of the 
condition any situation where the actor offers at least one individual 
or entity the requested access, exchange, or use. These revisions would 
alleviate concerns that the terms ``substantial'' and ``similarly 
situated'' are being manipulated to deny access, exchange, or use. 
Further, we do not believe that removal of the terms would undermine 
the stated overall objective of the condition when it was proposed, 
which was to provide certainty to actors when they were faced with 
situations where the request would involve building ``one off'' access, 
exchange, or use interfaces. Rather, the condition could still be met 
if the actor does not provide analogous

[[Page 61011]]

access, exchange, or use of the requested EHI to any other individual 
or entity.
    If we finalize the proposal to retain the Sec.  171.204(a)(4) 
condition with removal of the ``similarly situated'' element from Sec.  
171.204(a)(4)(iii), instead of our alternative proposal (below) to 
remove Sec.  171.204(a)(4) in its entirety, we also propose to remove 
Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(iv). Specifying bases an actor shall not use in 
determining whether a requestor is ``similarly situated'' under Sec.  
171.204(a)(4)(iii) would be moot upon removal of ``substantially 
similar'' from Sec.  171.204(a)(4)(iii).
    In the alternative to our proposed revisions to the condition 
above, we propose to remove the Sec.  171.204(a)(4) manner exception 
exhausted condition entirely if public comments we receive on this 
proposed rule indicate that our proposed revisions would not be 
sufficient to eliminate or substantially mitigate the misuse or abuse 
of the condition. We seek comments on this alternative approach.
    If we were to finalize the alternative proposal to remove the Sec.  
171.204(a)(4) manner exception exhausted condition, we would reserve 
subparagraph (4) within Sec.  171.204(a) to preserve accuracy of 
references in existing information blocking education materials to 
specific conditions of the Infeasibility Exception by CFR citation. We 
are not proposing at this time to redesignate any of the conditions 
currently codified within Sec.  171.204(a) that would remain in the 
event we finalize the alternative proposal to remove subparagraph (4), 
the proposal discussed in section IV.A.1 of this preamble to remove 
subparagraph (3) of Sec.  171.204(a), or both.

C. Manner Exception

    In the Cures Act Final Rule, we established the Manner Exception 
(then referred to as the ``Content and Manner'' Exception) in Sec.  
171.301 (85 FR 25959, see also 85 FR 25875 through 25879). In 
finalizing the exception, we stated our belief that it addressed 
comments received regarding the breadth of the EHI definition and 
flexibility in the manner an actor fulfills a request to access, 
exchange, or use EHI, while providing market participants the ability 
to reach and maintain market negotiated terms (85 FR 25876). As 
finalized in the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25642) and the Cures Act 
Interim Final Rule (85 FR 70085), the information blocking definition 
(Sec.  171.103) and the Content and Manner Exception (Sec.  171.301) 
were limited for a period of time to a subset of EHI that was narrower 
than the EHI definition finalized in the Cures Act Final Rule in Sec.  
171.102. The narrower subset included only the EHI identified by the 
data elements represented in USCDI version 1 for the first 18 months 
(until May 2, 2022) after the applicability date for 45 CFR part 171 
(November 2, 2020) (85 FR 25792). The Cures Act Interim Final Rule 
extended the applicability date of 45 CFR part 171 to April 5, 2021 (85 
FR 70069). This extension moved the end of the first 18 months of 
applicability of 45 CFR part 171 to October 5, 2022 (85 FR 70069).
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule (effective April 8, 2024), we revised Sec.  
171.301 to remove reference to the content condition, which had been 
moot as of October 6, 2022 (89 FR 1372). We also accordingly renumbered 
the remaining provisions in Sec.  171.301 and simplified the name to 
the ``Manner'' Exception (89 FR 1372).
    Based on comments received in response to the CMS-ASTP/ONC RFI, 
questions received through the ASTP/ONC Health IT Feedback and Inquiry 
Portal,\77\ and other stakeholder feedback, we are concerned that some 
actors may be attempting to abuse the exception, and that all 
participants in the health information ecosystem would benefit from 
greater certainty that the manner requested condition does not apply to 
any contracts, agreements, or licenses that are for the purposes of 
accomplishing access, exchange, or use of EHI in the manner requested, 
but that: (1) are not at ``market'' rate (85 FR 25877); (2) are 
contracts of adhesion; or (3) contain unconscionable terms (as defined 
below). Specifically, we are concerned that some actors may be 
incorrectly citing the manner requested condition to persuade 
requestors that the exception applies to agreements and terms to which 
it has never applied.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \77\ https://healthit.gov/feedback.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In both the Cures Act Proposed Rule and the Cures Act Final Rule, 
we recognized the inherent power inequity between EHR developers and 
various types of requestors (see 84 FR 7520, noting that EHR developers 
are in a unique position to block access to EHI for use in competing 
systems or applications). We also specifically address this concept of 
inequity and how it could impact terms of contracts in the Cures Act 
Final Rule (85 FR 25812). Foremost, we stated that a contract may 
implicate the information blocking provision if it included 
unconscionable terms for the access, exchange, or use of EHI or 
licensing of an interoperability element, which could include, but not 
be limited to, requiring a software company that produced a patient 
access application to relinquish all IP rights to the actor or agreeing 
to indemnify the actor for acts beyond standard practice, such as gross 
negligence on the part of the actor. Further, we noted that such terms 
may be problematic with regard to information blocking in situations 
involving unequal bargaining power related to accessing, exchanging, 
and using EHI (85 FR 25812).
    As currently codified, the Manner Exception's manner requested 
condition (Sec.  171.301(a)) applies when an actor fulfills a request 
for EHI in any manner requested that the actor is technically able to 
fulfill and for which the actor is able to reach agreeable terms with 
the requestor. As set forth in the Cures Act Final Rule, if the actor 
fulfills a request to access, exchange, or use EHI in any manner 
requested, the fees or licensing agreements associated with fulfilling 
such requests will not be limited by the conditions in the Fees 
Exception (Sec.  171.302) or Licensing Exception (Sec.  171.303). Our 
rationale was that actors would first attempt to negotiate agreements 
in any manner requested with terms the actor chooses at the ``market'' 
rate--which supports innovation and competition (85 FR 25877). If the 
actor could not reach agreeable terms by negotiation at the market 
rate, actors could still fulfill the request in an alternative manner 
(85 FR 25877). Given the language in the Cures Act Final Rule, we 
understood ``agreeable terms'' were those terms agreed upon by actors 
through arms-length negotiation at market rate (85 FR 25877). Agreeable 
terms did not incorporate contracts of adhesion or contracts with 
unconscionable terms. These types of agreements, by their very nature, 
are either not agreed upon through arm's length negotiation or at 
market rate.
    Further, the manner requested condition allows the negotiation of 
market rates and terms for the manner of access, exchange, or use 
only--that is, the requested combination of content and transport 
standard(s),\78\ ability to use an API or portal, or any other 
requested health IT functionality or technological mechanism that 
otherwise achieves the requested access, exchange, or use of the 
requested EHI.\79\ The

[[Page 61012]]

Manner Exception does not apply to an actor's practices in negotiating 
any aspect of a contract with a requestor other than the manner in 
which access, exchange, or use of requested EHI is achieved and, if the 
request is fulfilled in the manner requested, to market fees for items 
and services provided and market terms for any licensing of 
interoperability elements needed to fulfill the requested access, 
exchange, and use of EHI in that manner.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \78\ In the Cures Act Final Rule preamble discussion of 
alternative manners using content and transport standards specified 
by the requestor under what is now codified at Sec.  
171.301(b)(1)(ii), such an alternative ``manner'' includes two 
distinct components: (1) content standard; and (2) transport 
standard (85 FR 25878).
    \79\ Manners of access, exchange, and use would include, without 
limitation and where applicable, modification use of EHI that may be 
maintained by the actor (for example, where an actor maintains EHI 
on behalf of a health care provider and the health care provider 
wants to use a third-party app or service to add or update data 
points in various data classes or elements).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We reiterate the plain language of the Manner Exception, and 
particularly the manner requested condition, in that the Manner 
Exception only covers the technical manner of exchange of the requested 
EHI, and not any other term(s) in any contract or agreement entered or 
reached between the actor and requestor. Further, such contracts or 
agreements for access, exchange, and use of EHI cannot be contracts of 
adhesion or contracts containing unconscionable terms. These types of 
contracts are not covered by the Manner Exception even if these 
agreements were styled as, or in fact were, achieving access, exchange, 
or use of the requested EHI in the requested manner. These types of 
contracts would also likely constitute an interference (85 FR 25813) 
under the information blocking regulations.
    To further explicate the applicability of the Manner Exception 
where the actor has the technical capability and is able to reach 
agreement with the requestor to fulfill access, exchange, or use of 
requested EHI in a manner requested by the requestor, we offer two 
proposals. First, we propose to revise Sec.  171.301(a)(2) to add a new 
subparagraph (iii) to incorporate in regulation text and explicitly 
state that any contract or agreement related to the access, exchange, 
or use of EHI: (1) must be at market rate; (2) must not be a contract 
of adhesion; and (3) must not contain unconscionable terms. As stated 
in the Cures Act Final Rule, agreements must be negotiated at market 
rate (85 FR 25877). We propose to define, in Sec.  171.102, ``market 
rate'' using paragraph (1) of the definition of ``fair market value'' 
found in the Stark Law regulations at 42 CFR 411.351: ``(1) General. 
The value in an arm's-length transaction, consistent with the general 
market value of the subject transaction'' (42 CFR 411.351). We propose 
to define, in Sec.  171.102, ``contract of adhesion'' as a contract 
provided on a standardized form, or on a ``take it or leave it basis'' 
without a realistic opportunity to bargain where the desired product, 
services, access, use, or exchange cannot be provided except by 
acquiescing to the form contract. We propose to incorporate the Merriam 
Webster dictionary's definition of ``unconscionable'' to define, in 
Sec.  171.102, ``unconscionable terms'' as those terms that are 
excessive, unreasonable, or shockingly unfair or unjust. We further 
explain unconscionable terms by way of examples in this preamble as 
well as by the examples found in the preamble to the Cures Act Final 
Rule (85 FR 25811 through 25812). Examples of unconscionable terms 
related to the access, exchange, or use of EHI would include 
indemnification waivers, waivers of rights to file claims of wrongdoing 
with state or Federal authorities, terms that specify unreasonable 
revenue sharing beyond fair market value (as already prohibited by the 
Fees Exception), or terms that require surrendering intellectual 
property rights without fair compensation.
    An actor's practice that meets the manner requested condition of 
the Manner Exception does not currently, and would not under the first 
proposed revision, have to also satisfy the Fees Exception (Sec.  
171.302) or the Licensing Exception (Sec.  171.303) in order for the 
actor to have certainty the actor's practice specific to charging a fee 
or licensing interoperability elements for fulfilling the requested EHI 
access, exchange, or use in the manner requested would not be 
considered information blocking.
    This proposed approach offers both benefits and some potential 
challenges. We believe this proposal to define new terms and emphasize 
the parameters of the condition would offer more certainty to 
responding actors and to requestors \80\ about what types, terms, or 
provisions of agreements could be covered by the Manner Exception under 
the manner requested condition (Sec.  171.301(a)). However, we also 
recognize that actors would not have the same degree of certainty that 
any fees and licensing terms the actor may seek to institute are 
covered by an exception under the proposed revision of Sec.  171.301(a) 
as they would have under the Fees Exception and the Licensing 
Exception. Similarly, a requestor would not have the clarity and 
certainty provided by the Fees Exception's (Sec.  171.302) 
specifications for the fees it covers, including its exclusion of 
certain bases for fees (e.g., Sec.  171.302(b)(3) and (4)), or the 
requirements in the Licensing Exception (Sec.  171.303) for an actor's 
practices in licensing interoperability elements in relation to 
fulfilling access, exchange, or use of requested EHI in the manner 
requested. Therefore, we offer another proposal discussed in more 
detail below. As to this proposal, we seek comments on the proposed 
provision and proposed definitions, suggestions for alternative 
definitions, and any missing components that would more explicitly 
describe excluded contractual terms. For example, should we instead, or 
in addition, include the definition of ``general market value'' at 42 
CFR 411.351--``with respect to the purchase of an asset, the price that 
an asset would bring on the date of acquisition of the asset as the 
result of bona fide bargaining between a well-informed buyer and seller 
that are not otherwise in a position to generate business for each 
other.''?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \80\ Any individual or entity can be a requestor, including 
without limitation an individual or entity that happens to meet the 
Sec.  171.102 ``actor'' definition. For example, a health care 
provider is often also a requestor seeking access, exchange, or use 
of EHI from health IT developers of certified health IT, HIN/HIEs, 
and other health care providers.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We recognize the first proposed approach of adding explicit 
language to Sec.  171.301(a) to ensure fair market rates and exclude 
certain types of contracts and contractual terms may not fully address 
all concerns about the misuse of the Manner Exception and may add 
complexity or ambiguity with new terms. Therefore, we also propose in 
the alternative to remove paragraph (a)(2) from the manner requested 
condition of the Manner Exception, and explicitly apply the conditions 
of both the Fees Exception (Sec.  171.302) and the Licensing Exception 
(Sec.  171.303) to any agreement an actor makes with a requestor 
related to fulfilling the request for access, exchange, or use of EHI 
in any manner requested. Paragraph (a)(2) is where the manner requested 
condition currently states that if an actor fulfills a request for EHI 
in any manner requested, any fees charged by the actor in relation to 
fulfilling the request are not required to satisfy the Fees Exception 
(subparagraph (i) of paragraph (a)(2)), and any license of 
interoperability elements granted by the actor in relation to 
fulfilling the request are not required to satisfy the Licensing 
Exception (subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a)(2)). Under this 
alternative proposal, we propose that the agreement would need to 
satisfy the Fees Exception and the Licensing Exception, even when 
fulfilling the request in any manner requested. This approach would 
mean

[[Page 61013]]

that, while the actor and requestor retain flexibility to reach 
mutually agreeable terms for the actor to fulfill access, exchange, or 
use of the requested EHI in the manner requested, any fees charged by 
the actor and any licensing terms for interoperability elements from 
the actor to the requestor related to fulfilling the request must meet 
all of the requirements of the Fees Exception and the Licensing 
Exception for the actor to have certainty that their practice of 
charging fees or licensing interoperability elements would not 
constitute information blocking. In addition to simplifying the Manner 
Exception, this alternative proposal to revise the Manner Exception 
could promote greater consistency in actors' practices specific to fees 
and licensing terms for fulfilling EHI access, exchange, and use 
requests by following specified provisions of regulatory exceptions.
    Removing paragraph (2) from Sec.  171.301(a) and applying the Fees 
and Licensing Exceptions also specifically addresses the concerns 
related to indemnification terms in contracts, as well as revenue-
sharing agreements. Under this alternative proposal, the actor and 
requestor would retain the flexibility to negotiate and execute 
specific details related to the requested manner of access, exchange, 
or use of the requested EHI. This proposal also ensures there is no 
mistaken belief that the Manner Exception would apply to any other 
practice of the actor related to fulfilling the request, including any 
contract or agreement on fees, licensing terms, or any matter other 
than the specific technical details of what EHI is requested, and how 
the request to access, exchange, or use the requested EHI will be 
fulfilled. As noted above, we have heard that actors may be abusing the 
manner requested conditions to convince requestors to accept 
disagreeable terms that would be considered an interference and likely 
information blocking. Removing paragraph (2) from Sec.  171.301(a) and 
applying the Fees Exception and Licensing Exception would address these 
issues.
    We welcome comments on our proposed revisions to the Manner 
Exception, including each of our proposals.

D. Removal of Subpart D Exception and Other Provisions Specific to 
TEFCA

    In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we finalized a new TEFCA Manner Exception 
in 45 CFR 171.403, explaining that an actor's practice of limiting the 
manner in which it fulfills a request for access, exchange, or use of 
EHI to providing such access, exchange, or use only via TEFCA would not 
be considered information blocking when the practice follows certain 
conditions (89 FR 1387). The conditions include that the actor and 
requestor are both part of TEFCA, that the requestor is capable of such 
access, exchange, or use of the requested EHI from the actor via TEFCA, 
that the request is not made via the standards adopted in 45 CFR 
170.215 or version approved pursuant to 45 CFR 170.405(b)(8), and that 
any fees charged by the actor and the terms for any license of 
interoperability elements granted by the actor in relation to 
fulfilling the request satisfy, respectively, the Fees Exception (45 
CFR 171.302) and the Licensing Exception (Sec.  171.303) (89 FR 1388).
    In the HTI-2 Proposed Rule, we requested further comment on the 
TEFCA Manner Exception. We noted that the finalized exception differed 
in two ways from the proposal in the HTI-1 Proposed Rule: by applying 
the Fees Exception and the Licensing Exception to the TEFCA Manner 
Exception, and by including the limitation that carves out requests 
made for access, exchange, or use of EHI via FHIR API standards (89 FR 
63643). We also solicited comment on the ``FHIR'' carve out, 
specifically for options for revising or sunsetting the condition (89 
FR 63643). Having considered comments received, we finalized the 
exception without changes in the HTI-2 Final Rule (89 FR 101778 through 
80). We also proposed in the HTI-2 Proposed Rule (89 FR 63642) and 
finalized in the HTI-2 Final Rule (89 FR 101777 through 78) the 
addition of a definitions section (Sec.  171.401) to Subpart D of part 
171: ``Exceptions That Involve Practices Related to Actors' 
Participation in The Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement 
(TEFCA\TM\)''.
    We now propose to remove the TEFCA Manner Exception (Sec.  171.403) 
from 45 CFR part 171. Based on TEFCA's continued implementation and 
maturation and public comments received, including those received in 
response to the CMS-ASTP/ONC Request for Information; Health Technology 
Ecosystem (90 FR 21034) (CMS-ASTP/ONC RFI), the removal of the TEFCA 
Manner Exception (Sec.  171.403) is appropriate for multiple reasons.
    The exception was intended to incentivize participation in TEFCA. 
However, many of the Qualified Health Information Networks (QHINs)--who 
already participate in TEFCA--were critical of the exception when it 
was proposed and presumably did not find the exception to be an 
incentive. Further, we have observed that there is significant private 
sector investment being made toward TEFCA participation in the health 
information ecosystem. In comments on the CMS-ASTP RFI, stakeholders 
representing health care providers, technology innovators, and other 
perspectives, in addition to QHINs, advocated for continued use and 
advancement of TEFCA. We therefore believe that it is unnecessary to 
sustain the TEFCA Manner Exception to incentivize participation in 
TEFCA.
    We also believe the TEFCA Exception may be negatively impacting 
participants in the health information ecosystem due to some entities' 
potential misunderstanding regarding its purpose and applicability. For 
example, although we stated when we finalized the exception that an 
actor responding to a request from an individual (e.g., a patient or 
the patient's personal representative) would not be able to make use of 
this exception, we have observed some ongoing misunderstanding of this 
exception as shielding actors who are part of TEFCA from information 
blocking penalties for practices that interfere with individual-access 
use cases.
    The exception is also now unnecessary because it describes 
activities that are, given the robust TEFCA participation we are 
seeing, still covered by the Manner Exception (Sec.  171.301) or 
Infeasibility Exception (Sec.  171.204). The Manner Exception 
encourages active negotiation between a requestor and actor toward 
getting requestors the EHI access, exchange, and use they seek in a 
manner to which the requestor agrees. Conversely, the TEFCA Manner 
Exception allows for responding actors to limit a requestor who also 
participates in TEFCA to receiving EHI only via TEFCA when certain 
conditions are met by the actor, potentially slowing adoption of more 
innovative manners of access, exchange, or use than may be generally 
supported by TEFCA participants at any given point in time. Further, if 
an actor is unable to provide access, exchange, or use of EHI in the 
manner requested, the actor may find the Infeasibility Exception 
applicable to their circumstances, including the ``manner exception 
exhausted'' condition.
    With consideration of comments received in response to the CMS-
ASTP/ONC RFI and other RFIs, such as the Federal Trade Commission's 
Request for Public Comment Regarding Reducing Anti-Competitive 
Regulatory Barriers (FTC-2025-0028), we have become concerned that the 
narrow TEFCA Manner Exception (applicable only to certain types of 
exchange) may create an

[[Page 61014]]

unintended ceiling on future growth of TEFCA by discouraging 
participation by new entrants for whom other manners of access, 
exchange, or use of EHI will more efficiently support their innovative 
products and services. Instead, TEFCA's future growth will be supported 
by competition-oriented policies, compliance with applicable laws, and 
the continual advancement of efficient, interoperable manners of EHI 
access, exchange, and use of EHI that TEFCA supports.
    We note that removing the TEFCA Manner Exception would not remove 
any obligations an actor may have as a QHIN, Participant, or Sub-
participant in TEFCA to fulfill TEFCA requirements. The TEFCA Manner 
Exception does not create, reduce, or otherwise affect any obligations 
any actor may have as a QHIN, Participant, or Sub-participant in TEFCA 
to fulfill TEFCA requirements.
    Finally, we remind readers that removing this exception would not 
mean that a practice that would have been covered by the TEFCA Manner 
Exception would automatically be considered information blocking. As 
always, for any practice to be considered information blocking, it must 
be examined on a case-by-case basis in order to assess the specific 
facts and circumstances and determine whether the practice meets the 
information blocking definition (see Sec.  171.103, see also 
IB.FAQ46.1.2022FEB: How would any claim or report of information 
blocking be evaluated).\81\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \81\ https://www.healthit.gov/faq/how-would-any-claim-or-report-information-blocking-be-evaluated.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Because the TEFCA Manner Exception (Sec.  171.403) is the only 
exception codified in subpart D of part 171, we also propose to remove 
the entire subpart (subpart D). As currently codified, subpart D 
includes only three sections: Sec.  171.400; Sec.  171.401; and Sec.  
171.403. The removal of Sec.  171.403 would render the remaining two 
sections unnecessary. Section 171.400, ``Availability and effect of 
exceptions,'' mirrors Sec. Sec.  171.200 and 171.300, stating that a 
practice shall not be treated as information blocking if the actor 
satisfies an exception to the information blocking provision as set 
forth in subpart D by meeting all applicable requirements and 
conditions of the exception at all relevant times (89 FR 1388). Without 
any exceptions specific to practices related to an actor's 
participation in TEFCA, Sec.  171.400 would serve no purpose. 
Similarly, Sec.  171.401 would serve no purpose because it only 
includes definitions for the subpart via cross-reference to the TEFCA 
definitions included 45 CFR part 172, ``Trusted Exchange Framework and 
Common Agreement.''
    We welcome comments on these proposals.

V. Incorporation by Reference

    The Office of the Federal Register has established requirements for 
materials (e.g., standards and implementation specifications) that 
agencies propose to incorporate by reference in the Code of Federal 
Regulations (79 FR 66267; 1 CFR 51.5). Specifically, 1 CFR 51.5(a) 
requires agencies to discuss, in the preamble of a proposed rule, the 
ways that the materials they propose to incorporate by reference are 
reasonably available to interested parties and how interested parties 
can obtain the materials, and to summarize, in the preamble of the 
proposed rule, the material it proposes to incorporate by reference.
    To make the material we intend to incorporate by reference 
reasonably available, we provide a uniform resource locator (URL) for 
the standard. This standard is directly accessible through the URL 
provided. As an alternative, a copy of the standard may be viewed for 
free at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the 
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, 330 C Street 
SW, Washington, DC 20201. Please call (202) 690-7171 in advance to 
arrange inspection.
    The NTTAA and the OMB Circular A-119 require the use of, wherever 
practical, technical standards that are developed or adopted by 
voluntary consensus standards bodies to carry out policy objectives or 
activities, with certain exceptions. The NTTAA and OMB Circular A-119 
provide exceptions to selecting only standards developed or adopted by 
voluntary consensus standards bodies, namely when doing so would be 
inconsistent with applicable law or otherwise impractical. As discussed 
in section III.B.1.a of this preamble, we have followed the NTTAA and 
OMB Circular A-119 in proposing a standard for adoption, including 
describing any exceptions in the adoption of the standard.
    As required by 1 CFR 51.5(a), we provide a summary of the standard 
we propose to adopt and subsequently incorporate by reference in the 
CFR. We also provide relevant information about the standard throughout 
the preamble.
United States Core Data for Interoperability--45 CFR 170.213
     United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI), June 
2025, Version 3.1 (v3.1) URL: https://www.healthit.gov/isp/sites/isp/files/USCDI-Version-3-1_2025_508.pdf. This is a direct access link.
    Summary: USCDI establishes a minimum set of data classes that are 
required to be interoperable nationwide and is designed to be expanded 
in an iterative and predictable way over time.
    The following standards appear in the amendatory text of this 
document and have already been approved for the locations in which they 
appear:

--HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.5.1,
--HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2.0, Normative 
Edition,
--HL7 CDA(copyright) Release 2 Implementation Guide: Reporting to 
Public Health Cancer Registries from Ambulatory Healthcare Providers, 
Release 1; DSTU Release 1.1, Volume 1--Introductory Material and Volume 
2--Templates and Supporting Material,
--HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: National Health 
Care Surveys (NHCS), Release 1--US Realm, HL7 Draft Standard for Trial 
Use, Volume 1--Introductory Material and Volume 2--Templates and 
Supporting Material,
--HL7[supreg] FHIR[supreg] Implementation Guide: Electronic Case 
Reporting (eCR)--US Realm 2.1.0--STU 2 US (HL7 FHIR eCR IG),
--HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: Public Health Case Report--
the Electronic Initial Case Report (eICR) Release 2, STU Release 3.1--
US Realm (HL7 CDA eICR IG),
--HL7[supreg] CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: Reportability 
Response, Release 1, STU Release 1.1--US Realm (HL7 CDA RR IG), and
--Reportable Conditions Trigger Codes Value Set for Electronic Case 
Reporting.

    No changes are proposed to the IBR material.

VI. Response to Comments

    Because of the large number of public comments normally received in 
response to Federal Register documents, we are not able to acknowledge 
or respond to them individually. We will consider all comments we 
receive by the date and time specified in the DATES section of this 
preamble, and when we proceed with a subsequent document, we will 
respond to the comments in the preamble of that document.

[[Page 61015]]

VII. Collection of Information Requirements

    Under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), codified as 
amended at 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., agencies are required to provide 
notice in the Federal Register and solicit public comment on a proposed 
collection of information before it is submitted to the Office of 
Management and Budget for review and approval. In order to fairly 
evaluate whether an information collection should be approved by the 
OMB, section 3506(c)(2)(A) of the PRA requires that we solicit comment 
on the following issues:
    1. Whether the information collection is necessary and useful to 
carry out the proper functions of the agency;
    2. The accuracy of the agency's estimate of the information 
collection burden;
    3. The quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be 
collected; and
    4. Recommendations to minimize the information collection burden on 
the affected public, including automated collection techniques.
    Under the PRA, the time, effort, and financial resources necessary 
to meet the information collection requirements referenced in this 
section are to be considered. We explicitly seek, and will consider, 
public comment on our assumptions as they relate to the PRA 
requirements summarized in this section.

A. ONC-ACBs

    We propose to descope the ``Real World Testing'' Condition and 
Maintenance of Certification requirements in Sec.  170.405 with 
deregulatory actions related to real world testing plans, results, and 
the use of the standards version advancement process (SVAP). Consistent 
with these proposals to descope the Real World Testing Condition and 
Maintenance of Certification requirements, we propose to make 
conforming edits in Sec.  170.523(p) to remove the ONC-ACB review and 
confirmation process for real world testing plans in Sec.  
170.523(p)(1), and the submission of real world testing plans in Sec.  
170.523(p)(3) which requires ONC-ACBs to collect and report certain 
information to ONC related to real world testing plans (e.g., verify 
that the health IT developer submits an annual, publicly available real 
world testing plan and perform a completeness check). Our proposals in 
this proposed rule would not add any new collection of information 
burden and would instead reduce reporting burden associated with the 
proposed deregulatory actions.
    In the 2015 Edition proposed rule (80 FR 16894), we estimated fewer 
than ten annual respondents for all of the regulatory ``collection of 
information'' requirements that apply to the ONC-Approved Accreditor 
(ONC-AA) and ONC-ACBs, including those previously approved by OMB. In 
the 2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62733), we concluded that the 
regulatory ``collection of information'' requirements for the ONC-AA 
and the ONC-ACBs were not subject to the PRA under 5 CFR 1320.3(c). We 
continue to estimate less than ten annual respondents for all of the 
proposed regulatory ``collection of information'' requirements for ONC-
ACBs under part 170 of title 45, including those previously approved by 
OMB and proposed in this proposed rule. Accordingly, the regulatory 
``collection of information'' requirements under the Program described 
in this section are not subject to the PRA under 5 CFR 1320.3(c). We 
welcome comments on these conclusions and the supporting rationale on 
which they are based. For the cost and burden reduction estimates 
related to these proposed deregulatory actions, we refer readers to 
section VIII (Regulatory Impact Analysis) of this proposed rule.

B. Health IT Developers

    The ``Insights'' Condition and Maintenance of Certification 
requirements in Sec.  170.407 include seven measures that health IT 
developers under the ONC Health IT Certification Program must annually 
report on consistent with specified regulatory compliance timelines. In 
the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1399), we estimated the total crude upper 
bound burden to be 1,767,692 hours. In this proposed rule, we propose 
to remove and descope measures associated in Sec.  170.407 to limit 
reporting requirements only to the ``use of FHIR in apps through 
certified health IT'' measure, which would reduce reporting burden for 
health IT developers reporting under the Certification Program. In 
other words, we propose to reduce reporting burden associated with the 
Insights Condition and Maintenance of Certification requirements, and 
do not propose any new requirements that would add information 
collection burden. For more detailed discussion of burden reduction 
estimates of these deregulatory actions associated with the Insights 
Condition and Maintenance of Certification, we refer readers to section 
VIII (Regulatory Impact Analysis) of this proposed rule.

VIII. Regulatory Impact Analysis

A. Statement of Need

    E.O. 14192 on Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation, issued 
January 31, 2025, sets the policy to ``to significantly reduce the 
private expenditures required to comply with Federal regulations to 
secure America's economic prosperity and national security and the 
highest possible quality of life for each citizen.'' \82\ To that end, 
E.O. 14192 requires that ``any new incremental costs associated with 
new regulations shall, to the extent permitted by law, be offset by the 
elimination of existing costs associated with at least 10 prior 
regulations.'' \83\ This proposed rule, if finalized as proposed, is 
expected to be an E.O. 14192 deregulatory action and includes 
regulations and policies ASTP/ONC proposes to remove and revise to 
unleash prosperity. We believe the proposed changes will reduce burden 
on developers of certified health IT, returning time and effort to 
them, and in turn, enhancing competition, entrepreneurship, and 
innovation. These proposed deregulatory actions will reduce barriers to 
entry for novel technologies and digital health solutions, give time 
back to developers of certified health IT to focus on the needs and 
requests of their customers, and, overall, advance progress toward 
nationwide interoperability and universal patient access to their 
electronic health information.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \82\ https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-02345/p-2.
    \83\ https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-02345/p-6.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

B. Overall Impact

    We have examined the impacts of this proposed rule as required by 
E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review''; E.O. 13132, 
``Federalism''; E.O. 13563, ``Improving Regulation and Regulatory 
Review''; E.O. 14192, ``Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation''; 
section 202 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1532); and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (Pub. L. 96-354).
1. Regulatory Planning and Review Analysis
    This proposed rule implements relevant policy priorities outlined 
in E.O.s 12866, 13563, and 14192. E.O. 12866 and 13563 direct agencies 
to assess all costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives 
and, if regulation is necessary, to select regulatory approaches that 
maximize net benefits (including potential economic, environmental, 
public health and safety

[[Page 61016]]

effects, and distributive impacts). E.O. 14192 directs agencies to 
repeal ten existing regulations for each new regulation issued in 2025 
and thereafter and to account for cost savings associated with 
deregulatory actions. This proposed rulemaking, if finalized as 
proposed, is expected to be an E.O. 14192 deregulatory action, and we 
have therefore prepared an RIA that to the best of our ability presents 
the expected significant cost savings to regulated entities generated 
by the proposed actions.
a. Costs and Benefits
    These proposed deregulatory actions provide substantial relief for 
developers of certified health IT and significant cost savings realized 
from the revision and removal of certain program requirements. For the 
purpose of estimating the cost savings of this proposed rulemaking, we 
have determined that these policies would continue absent this 
regulatory action. The cost savings have been estimated using the best 
available data and modeled on the costs estimated and finalized in 
prior ASTP/ONC rulemakings. As articulated in the preamble, these 
proposed deregulatory actions reduce the effort of developers of 
certified health IT to meet ongoing program requirements and reduce 
barriers to entry for new program participants. The proposed actions, 
importantly, return effort back to developers of certified health IT to 
innovate their technology and focus on the needs of their clients and 
end users.
Employee Assumptions and Hourly Wage
    We have made employee assumptions about the level of expertise 
needed to complete the requirements that are affected by this proposed 
rule. Unless indicated otherwise, for wage calculations for Federal 
employees and ONC-ACBs, we have correlated the employee's expertise 
with the corresponding grade and step of an employee classified under 
the General Schedule (GS) Federal Salary Classification, relying on the 
associated employee hourly rates for the Washington, DC, locality pay 
area as published by the OPM for 2025.\84\ We have assumed that other 
indirect costs (including benefits) are equal to 100% of pre-tax wages. 
Therefore, we have doubled the employee's hourly wage to account for 
other indirect costs. We have concluded that a 100% expenditure on 
benefits and overhead is an appropriate estimate based on research 
conducted by HHS.\85\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \84\ https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/2025/general-schedule/.
    \85\ See U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation (ASPE), 
Guidelines for Regulatory Impact Analysis, at 28-30 (2016), 
available at https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/guidelines-regulatory-impact-analysis.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Unless otherwise noted, we have consistently used the May 2024 
National Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates reported by the 
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) to calculate private sector 
employee wage estimates (e.g., health IT developers, health care 
providers, HINs, attorneys, etc.), as we believe BLS provides the most 
accurate and comprehensive wage data for private sector positions.\86\ 
These wage estimates are a national average and we do not consider 
regional wage variation in our estimates. We also do not consider 
possible variation in the average wages for software developers in 
health care IT positions versus IT positions, more generally, which the 
BLS wage estimate is based upon. Just as with the General Schedule 
Federal Salary Classification calculations, we have assumed that other 
indirect costs (including benefits) are equal to 100% of pre-tax wages. 
We welcome comments on our methodology for estimating labor costs, 
including the effects of any regional or IT sector wage variation on 
our estimates.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \86\ https://data.bls.gov/oes/#/industry/000000.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    According to the May 2024 BLS occupational employment statistics, 
the mean hourly wage for a ``Software Developer'' is $69.50. As noted 
previously, we have assumed that other indirect costs (including 
benefits) are equal to 100% of pre-tax wages, so the hourly wage 
including other indirect costs for Software Developers is $139.00.
Quantifying the Estimated Number of Health IT Developers and Products
    Given the wide range of proposed deregulatory actions, we have not 
adopted a single, over-arching approach to calculate the number of 
health IT developers and products affected by this rulemaking. We 
believe, however, that each current developer of certified health IT 
and participant in the Certification Program will be affected by these 
proposed actions, but that impact will vary, given the breadth and 
scope of each developer's participation in the Certification Program. 
For each set of proposed actions, we describe our methodology for 
calculating the current number of health IT developers and products 
affected, and, where applicable, model estimated future counts of 
developers and products affected.
Number of End Users That Might Be Impacted by ASTP/ONC's Proposed 
Regulations
    The breadth and scope of the proposed deregulatory actions create 
immediate and significant cost savings for developers of certified 
health IT. As we have finalized in prior ASTP/ONC rulemakings--Cures 
Act Final Rule (85 FR 25642) and HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1192)--we 
assume the regulatory costs imposed by those rules on developers may be 
passed on to end users of their technology in the form of increased 
fees and other costs. These deregulatory actions, though scoped to 
provide immediate relief and reduce ongoing burden on developers of 
certified health IT, may have downstream impacts on technology end 
users who may benefit from lower marginal costs to license and update 
their software; focused developers efforts on emerging end user needs; 
and other forms of innovation that may lead to unquantified benefits 
and savings for end users. We assume developers of certified health IT 
will use the cost savings to invest in innovation and emerging 
technology, rather than directly reduce costs on their end users, but, 
overall, believe the cost savings will create a net benefit to end 
users, if not directly as an immediate financial savings.
Costs
    We do not expect costs to be associated with the deregulatory 
action proposals. We do, however, estimate the costs to review the 
rule.
    All entities affected by this proposed rule, if finalized, would 
spend time to read and understand the final rule, resulting in a one-
time cost. The current Preamble and proposed regulatory text together 
contain approximately 64,727 words; we use this as a proxy for the 
length of the final rule. Consistent with HHS guidelines, we assume 
that industry reviewers read at the average adult reading speed of 
approximately 288 (64,727/225) words per minute, so the time to read 
and understand the regulation would be about 4 hours per person 
(288*60=17,280) (64,727/17,280=3.75). We estimate the total number of 
reviewers by taking the number of estimated developers and adding an 
estimated number of medical associations that represent health care 
providers and health information networks, etc. The counts of 
developers included in Table R-1 were calculated using publicly 
available Certification Program data available through the

[[Page 61017]]

CHPL.\87\ We took the estimated number of developers from Table R-1, 
which is 444 developers and estimated 200 medical associations.\88\ We 
then determined that there would likely be 644 individuals to review 
the proposed rule. As mentioned above, we used the May 2024 National 
Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates reported by the BLS to 
calculate private sector employee wage estimates.\89\ We identified the 
``Management Analyst'' position as comparable to a position that would 
review the rule. According to the May 2024 BLS occupational employment 
statistics, the mean hourly wage for a ``Management Analyst'' is 
$55.15. As noted previously, we have assumed that other indirect costs 
(including benefits) are equal to 100% of pre-tax wages, so the hourly 
wage including other indirect costs for a Management Analyst is 
$110.30. We estimate it will take four hours to review the proposed 
rule. Therefore, the total cost to review the rule for one reviewer 
would be $441.20 ($110.30*4). We took the estimated number of 
individuals to review the rule which is 644 and then multiplied that by 
$441.20 and calculated the estimated total cost to review the rule to 
be $284,132 ($441.20*644).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \87\ https://chpl.healthit.gov.
    \88\ https://www.ama-assn.org/house-delegates/hod-organization/member-organizations-ama-house-delegates?utm_source=chatgpt.com.
    \89\ https://data.bls.gov/oes/#/industry/000000.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Benefits
    We expect the proposed deregulatory actions to result in 
significant benefits for health IT developers, providers, ONC-ACBs, 
ONC-ATLs, and ASTP/ONC. These expected benefits are detailed below. 
Generally, these benefits are in the form of cost and time savings and 
reductions in administrative burden to comply with Certification 
Program requirements. The proposed actions reduce the scope and breadth 
of program requirements. The proposed program revisions provide direct 
cost savings (quantified, below) to developers of certified health IT 
and their users (i.e., providers) through fewer program requirements 
and lower regulatory barriers, freeing up time for more innovation and 
meeting customer needs. In turn, the revised program requirements may 
reduce the implementation effort on ONC-ACBs, ONC-ATLs, and ASTP/ONC, 
who works with ACBs and ATLs to implement program requirements. These 
savings in time and effort to ONC-ACBs, ONC-ATLs, and ASTP/ONC can be 
used toward remaining program improvement and implementation efforts, 
enhancing the operation and management of the program.
1. Removal
1.1 Removal of Certification Criteria
    We propose to remove 34 certification criteria. Of these, we 
propose to remove 24 criteria as of the effective date of any final 
rule and the remaining ten criteria as of January 1, 2027. We developed 
a common model for estimating cost savings associated with the removal 
of all but one certification criterion, described below. For all 
criteria we assume that the cost savings from these criteria would 
begin January 1, 2027.
    Table R-1, below, provides criterion-level results of our model for 
32 of the proposed criteria removals. For each certification criterion 
we identified the original costs to certify to the functionality from 
prior rules (the lower and upper bounds of ``Total Hours'' in Table R-
1.) 90 91 92 We then assumed that the annual cost to 
maintain certification was a small fraction of the initial costs. We 
are not aware of any published evidence that would directly inform this 
calculation, and, therefore, developed a novel approach using various 
information sources. We defined this fraction (``Final Effort 
Multiplier'' in Table R-1) based on five factors: (1) ``Test'': the 
criterion's certification conformance method, assuming that criteria 
with a test procedure had additional maintenance costs while those with 
a conformance method of attestation had no additional cost beyond what 
was initially incurred; (2) ``Stakeholder feedback'': stakeholder 
feedback received by ASTP/ONC through meetings, informal conversations, 
and letters from impacted parties on effort involved in certifying and 
updating the specific certification criterion; (3) ``Complexity of 
standard'': whether the criterion referenced a standard and an 
assessment of the complexity involved in maintaining and updating 
conformance to that standard over time, including through future 
regulatory requirements to update criteria to support new versions of 
the USCDI; (4) ``Complexity of test procedure'': an assessment of the 
complexity of the test procedure or evaluative work to support 
attestation when it was necessary to undertake the certification 
process; and (5) ``General complexity'': an overall assessment of the 
complexity of maintaining the certification criterion and underlying 
functionality.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \90\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2015/10/16/2015-25597/2015-edition-health-information-technology-health-it-certification-criteria-2015-edition-base#p-185.
    \91\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/01/09/2023-28857/health-data-technology-and-interoperability-certification-program-updates-algorithm-transparency-and.
    \92\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2020/05/01/2020-07419/21st-century-cures-act-interoperability-information-blocking-and-the-onc-health-it-certification.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The ``Final Effort Multiplier'' is a sum of the five factors listed 
in the table and described above. We then used this multiplier to 
determine the annual costs of meeting and maintaining the individual 
criteria by taking the product of the lower and upper bound ``Total 
Hours'', described above, and this multiplier. We then estimated the 
lower and upper bounds of ``Hours saved'' by multiplying the ``Annual'' 
hours by the number of products that certify each criterion. The counts 
of developers and products included in Table R-1 are current as of May 
1, 2025. The counts were calculated using publicly available 
Certification Program data available through the CHPL.\93\ Although we 
primarily use the count of products to estimate ``Hours saved'', the 
count of developers is included for reference and comparison.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \93\ https://chpl.healthit.gov.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

BILLING CODE 4150-45-P

[[Page 61018]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TP29DE25.036

BILLING CODE 4150-45-C

    Table R-1--Panel B--Annual Undiscounted Cost Savings Estimates for the Removal of Certification Criteria
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Criterion                                  Name                  Lower bound     Upper bound
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sec.   170.315(a)(12).........................  Family health history...........        $248,463        $496,925
Sec.   170.315(a)(14).........................  Implantable device list.........       1,909,026       5,454,360
Sec.   170.315(b)(2)..........................  Clinical information                   5,195,820       6,234,984
                                                 reconciliation and
                                                 incorporation.
Sec.   170.315(b)(7)..........................  Security tags--summary of care--         640,512       1,040,832
                                                 send.

[[Page 61019]]

 
Sec.   170.315(b)(8)..........................  Security tags--summary of care--         620,496       1,008,306
                                                 receive.
Sec.   170.315(b)(9)..........................  Care plan.......................         569,205         813,150
Sec.   170.315(c)(4)..........................  Clinical quality measures                838,170       1,257,255
                                                 (CQMs)--filter.
Sec.   170.315(d)(1)..........................  Authentication, access control,          315,252         630,504
                                                 authorization.
Sec.   170.315(d)(2)..........................  Auditable events and tamper-             341,523         683,046
                                                 resistance.
Sec.   170.315(d)(3)..........................  Audit report(s).................         537,096       1,074,192
Sec.   170.315(d)(4)..........................  Amendments......................         218,508         437,016
Sec.   170.315(d)(5)..........................  Automatic access time-out.......          69,917         139,834
Sec.   170.315(d)(6)..........................  Emergency access................         118,428         236,856
Sec.   170.315(d)(7)..........................  End-user device encryption......         383,779         767,558
Sec.   170.315(d)(8)..........................  Integrity.......................         297,391         594,781
Sec.   170.315(d)(9)..........................  Trusted connection..............         914,064       1,828,128
Sec.   170.315(d)(10).........................  Auditing actions on health                56,295         112,590
                                                 information.
Sec.   170.315(d)(11).........................  Accounting of disclosures.......         125,656         188,484
Sec.   170.315(d)(12).........................  Encrypt authentication                   444,175         888,349
                                                 credentials.
Sec.   170.315(d)(13).........................  Multi-factor authentication.....         242,277         484,554
Sec.   170.315(e)(3)..........................  Patient health information             1,163,430       1,861,488
                                                 capture.
Sec.   170.315(f)(4)..........................  Transmission to Cancer                   538,208         672,760
                                                 Registries.
Sec.   170.315(f)(7)..........................  Transmission to PHAs--Health             700,560         980,784
                                                 Care Surveys.
Sec.   170.315(g)(1)..........................  Automated numerator recording...         462,592         693,888
Sec.   170.315(g)(2)..........................  Automated measure calculation...       6,116,000       9,785,600
Sec.   170.315(g)(4)..........................  Quality management system.......         409,355       1,309,936
Sec.   170.315(g)(5)..........................  Accessibility-centered design...         409,355         818,710
Sec.   170.315(g)(6)..........................  Consolidated CDA creation              4,403,520       9,907,920
                                                 performance.
Sec.   170.315(g)(7)..........................  Application access--patient            1,010,808       1,347,744
                                                 selection.
Sec.   170.315(g)(9)..........................  Application access--all data           2,962,368       3,949,824
                                                 request.
Sec.   170.315(h)(1)..........................  Direct Project..................       5,112,976       7,030,342
Sec.   170.315(h)(2)..........................  Direct Project, Edge Protocol,           480,384         660,528
                                                 and XDR/XDM.
                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Total Cost Savings........................  ................................      37,855,816      63,391,228
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* The lower and upper bound cost savings estimates use the hourly wage ($139.00) we describe above in ``Employee
  Assumptions and Hourly Wage''.

    For the 32 certification criteria proposed for removal in Table R-
1, we estimate the total annual hours saved to range from 272,344 to 
456,052, among 444 developers of certified health IT and 589 certified 
products (Table R-1). Using the hourly labor rate ($139), described 
above, we estimate the total undiscounted annual cost savings to range 
from $37,855,816 to $63,391,228. We welcome comments on the proposed 
methodology and the accuracy and validity of the model's estimates.
1.2 Removal of Safety-Enhanced Design
    Cost savings from the proposed removal of Sec.  170.315(g)(3) 
safety-enhanced design (SED) is estimated separately from non-SED 
removed criteria. In the 2015 Edition Final Rule, we estimated that 
developers would spend 300 to 400 hours implementing the SED criterion 
at a cost of $63 per hour and that 266 developers would certify to SED. 
This resulted in a final cost estimate ranging from $5,027,400 to 
$6,703,200 in 2014 dollars. Since the finalization of that policy, we 
have received substantial input from developers of certified health IT 
that the cost estimates specified in that rule were an under-estimate 
of the initial and recurring costs associated with the SED 
certification criterion. In contrast to those estimates, we understand 
that individual developers of certified health IT incur recurring costs 
greater than $200,000 to recruit participants and conduct testing 
specified by the SED certification criterion. In response to input from 
the impacted community, we have revised our estimates of the costs of 
SED and potential cost savings that can be realized from the proposed 
removal of the SED certification criterion in this proposed rule.
    The SED certification criterion is required for all developers 
seeking certification to Sec.  170.315(a)(1) through (5), (9) (until 
the certification criterion's expiration date), (a)(14), (b)(2), (b)(3) 
or (b)(11). Developers must recruit at least ten participants, conduct 
testing, and submit metrics for each of the criterion for which they 
seek certification that is referenced within Sec.  170.315(g)(3). Thus, 
we believe cost savings from the removal of SED are incremental per the 
number of dependent criteria certified because there are additional 
costs per product associated with SED testing and data reporting. Based 
on stakeholder input and because developers can certify multiple 
products each with up to ten criteria that requires SED, we believe an 
estimated annual cost of between $8,000 and $12,000 per product per 
certification criterion that requires SED testing is appropriate. This 
estimate represents the effort to design tests, recruit participants, 
conduct testing, document that testing, and report results to the ONC-
ACB in the required format.
    To estimate the total costs of SED, we estimated the number of 
products that will be certified to SED and the number of SED criteria 
each product will certify. We report those costs in Table R-2. The 
count of products that are certified to SED and number of SED criteria 
each product certifies in the table are current as of May 1, 2025. The 
counts were calculated using publicly available Certification Program 
data available through the CHPL.\94\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \94\ https://chpl.healthit.gov.

[[Page 61020]]



                  Table R-2--Annual Cost Savings Estimates for Removal of Sec.   170.315(g)(3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    Lower bound     Upper bound
                                     Number of       cost per        cost per       Total lower     Total upper
Number of SED criteria certified     products         product         product     bound cost ($)  bound cost ($)
                                                      (hours)         (hours)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1...............................              17           8,000          12,000         136,000         204,000
2...............................               4           8,000          12,000          64,000          96,000
3...............................               7           8,000          12,000         168,000         252,000
4...............................              19           8,000          12,000         608,000         912,000
5...............................              21           8,000          12,000         840,000       1,260,000
6...............................              28           8,000          12,000       1,344,000       2,016,000
7...............................              33           8,000          12,000       1,848,000       2,772,000
8...............................              62           8,000          12,000       3,968,000       5,952,000
9...............................             182           8,000          12,000      13,104,000      19,656,000
                                 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             373  ..............  ..............      22,080,000      33,120,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note: The lower and upper bound cost estimates use the hourly wage ($139.00) we describe above in ``Employee
  Assumptions and Hourly Wage''.

    In total, 373 products are certified to SED and at least one SED 
certification criterion. Based on Table R-2, we estimate the total 
undiscounted annual cost savings from removing the SED certification 
criteria to be between $22,080,000 and $33,120,000. We welcome comments 
on the proposed methodology and the accuracy and validity of the 
estimates.

2. Revisions

2.1 Revision of Certification Criteria
    We propose to revise seven certification criteria. For each revised 
certification criterion, we have estimated the annual savings generated 
by the proposed revisions.
2.1.1 Sec.  170.315(a)(5) Patient Demographics and Observations
    We propose to codify certification guidance for the Certification 
Program exercising our enforcement discretion--specifically, for the 
``patient demographics and observations'' certification criterion in 
Sec.  170.315(a)(5).\95\ We expect this proposed revision to reduce the 
effort associated with meeting the requirements in Sec.  170.315(a)(5) 
in the form of reduced maintenance costs. Using the approach described 
for removed criteria, we estimate that the removal of these 
requirements will reduce the annual effort of maintaining certification 
by 5% of the projected development costs estimated in the HTI-1 Final 
Rule. We note that 288 developers have certified 352 products to Sec.  
170.315(a)(5) and that the initial developer hours estimated to 
implement updates to the criterion in the HTI-1 Final Rule had a lower 
bound of 720 hours and an upper bound of 1,860 hours. We therefore 
estimate that the revision of this criterion will reduce effort by 
between 36 and 93 hours per product and 12,672 to 32,736 hours across 
all products. We estimate the total undiscounted annual cost savings 
for reduced maintenance to range from $1,761,408 to $4,550,304.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \95\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/uscdi-v3-data-elements-enforcement-discretion-notice.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

2.1.2 Sec.  170.315(b)(1) Transitions of Care
    We propose to revise the certification criterion in Sec.  
170.315(b)(1) to reduce burden on developers of health IT by removing 
the ``send and receive via edge protocol'' C-CDA requirement and 
``create'' C-CDA requirement in the criterion and by simplifying the 
remaining criterion requirements to focus solely on validating receipt 
of C-CDA documents. We believe that these revisions remove a 
substantial proportion of the ongoing effort required to maintain and 
update the functional requirement of the certification criterion, but 
we acknowledge that it does not remove requirements to support the C-
CDA standard or to update functionality to receive C-CDA documents. We 
assume that this reduces the overall ongoing cost for this criterion by 
60%. Following the methodology described for removed criterion, we 
considered annual maintenance of Sec.  170.315(b)(1) to represent high 
complexity equivalent to 15% of the initial development costs annually. 
We note from an analysis of current Certification Program data that 256 
developers have certified 300 products to Sec.  170.315(b)(1) and that 
the initial developer hours estimated to implement the criterion had a 
lower bound of 3,000 hours and an upper bound of 4,000 hours in the 
2015 Edition Final Rule (80 FR 62602).\96\ We therefore estimate that 
the revision of this criterion will reduce effort to maintain the 
criterion annually by 9% annually or between 270 and 360 hours per 
product and 81,000 to 108,000 hours across all products. We estimate 
the total undiscounted annual cost savings to range from $11,259,000 to 
$15,012,000.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \96\ https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2015-25597/p-1773.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

2.1.3 Sec.  170.315(b)(11) Decision Support Interventions
    We propose to remove all requirements related to source attributes, 
their access, and modification and requirements to manage risks related 
to the development of predictive DSIs.
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule, we indicated that the costs to implement 
Sec.  170.315(b)(11) ranged from 2,200 hours to 4,600 hours, that 
updating source attribute information annually would cost an additional 
0 to 1085 hours annually, depending on the number of DSIs the developer 
supplied, and that engaging in risk management and updating information 
would result in an additional 0 to 285 hours annually. Without this 
revision, we estimate that annual maintenance costs for this criterion 
would represent 12% of initial development costs. We believe these 
changes reduce these costs by 80% and would eliminate annual costs to 
update information for source attributes and risk management.
    In total, we estimate that the revision will reduce maintenance 
costs by 211 to 1,812 hours per product. We note that 232 products 
developed by 183 developers were certified to Sec.  170.315(b)(11) 
resulting in an annual reduction of 48,952 to 420,384 labor hours. We 
estimate the total undiscounted annual cost savings to range from 
$6,804,328 to $58,433,376.

[[Page 61021]]

2.1.4 Sec.  170.315(c)(3) Clinical Quality Measures (CQMs)--Report
    We propose revisions to Sec.  170.315(c)(3) to remove expired 
standards references. These proposed revisions are considered de 
minimis and do not create net new cost savings.
2.1.5 Sec.  170.315(e)(1) View, Download and Transmit to a 3rd Party
    We propose to revise Sec.  170.315(e)(1) to remove the standards 
referenced in Sec.  170.315(e)(1)(i), Web Content Accessibility 
Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0, and Sec.  170.315(e)(1)(ii), Network Time 
Protocol (NTP) standard. We believe that the requirement to demonstrate 
conformance to the WCAG standard creates substantial burden for 
developers. We received feedback from developers that licensing a tool 
for WCAG assessments costs thousands of dollars annually. We 
acknowledge that the current referenced standards are old and do not 
easily work with newer versions of both the standard itself as well as 
testing tools to determine compliance. Thus, we expect these changes 
will reduce unnecessary burden associated with maintaining current 
conformance requirements as part of certification. In total, we 
estimate that the annual maintenance burden associated with the WCAG 
standard represented 2% of the initial development costs of the VDT 
criterion. We note that 215 developers have certified 255 products to 
Sec.  170.315(e)(1) and that the initial developer hours estimated to 
implement the criterion had a lower bound of 1,300 hours and an upper 
bound of 2,000 hours in the 2015 Edition Final Rule which included the 
updated WCAG requirement. We therefore estimate that the revision of 
this criterion will reduce effort to maintain the criterion annually by 
2% annually or between 26 and 40 hours per product and 6,630 to 10,200 
hours across all products. We estimate the total undiscounted annual 
cost savings to range from $921,570 to $1,417,800.
2.1.6 Sec.  170.315(f)(5) Transmission to Public Health Agencies--
Electronic Case Reporting
    We propose to codify certification guidance for the Certification 
Program exercising our enforcement discretion for--specifically, the 
``Transmission to public health agencies--electronic case reporting'' 
certification criterion in Sec.  170.315(f)(5).\97\ We expect this 
proposed revision to reduce the burden associated with meeting the 
requirements in the eCR certification criterion in the form of reduced 
maintenance costs. Following the methodology described for removed 
criterion, we considered annual maintenance of Sec.  170.315(f)(5), as 
finalized in the HTI-1 Final Rule and becoming effective on December 
31, 2025, to represent high complexity equivalent to 27% of the initial 
development costs annually. We estimate that removal of standards-based 
requirements will reduce annual maintenance costs to 10% of initial 
development costs, a 63% reduction in effort.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \97\ http://healthit.gov/topic/electronic-case-reporting-certification-criterion-enforcement-discretion-notice.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Currently, 94 developers and 127 products are certified to Sec.  
170.315(f)(5). Eighty-six developers and 112 products are certified to 
the ``functional'' requirements in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(i) alone, while 
10 developers and 15 products are certified to the standards-based 
requirements in Sec.  170.315(f)(5)(ii). The initial developer hours 
estimated to implement the criterion had a lower bound of 0 hours and 
an upper bound of 2,160 in the HTI-1 Final Rule. We therefore estimate 
that the revision of this criterion will reduce annual effort to 
maintain the criterion by between 0 and 367 labor hours per product and 
0 to 46,609 labor hours across all 127 products. We estimate the total 
undiscounted annual cost savings for reduced maintenance to range from 
$0 to $6,478,651.
2.1.7 Sec.  170.315(f)(6) Transmission to Public Health Agencies--
Antimicrobial Use and Resistance Reporting
    We propose to remove the standards-based requirements in Sec.  
170.315(f)(6) that were adopted in the 2015 Edition Final Rule and 
revise this criterion to be a functional requirement. We received 
stakeholder feedback that the CDA-based standards cited in this 
criterion are not required for users to submit antimicrobial use and 
resistance (AUR) data to the CDC's National Healthcare Safety Network 
(NHSN), creating a disconnect between the criterion and what is used in 
practice. We expect the removal of standards-based requirements to 
better align with the NHSN's goals for reporting and reduce the burden 
on developers to meet this requirement. Following the methodology 
described for removed criteria, we considered annual maintenance of 
Sec.  170.315(f)(6) to represent medium complexity equivalent to 20% of 
the initial development costs annually. We estimate that removal of 
standards-based requirements will reduce annual maintenance costs to 6% 
of initial development costs, resulting in a 70% reduction in effort.
    Currently, 28 developers and 47 products are certified to Sec.  
170.315(f)(6). The initial developer hours estimated to implement the 
criterion had a lower bound of 1,000 hours and an upper bound of 1,400 
hours in the 2015 Edition. We therefore estimate that the revision of 
this criterion will reduce effort to maintain the criterion annually by 
14% or between 140 to 196 hours per product and 6,580 to 9,212 hours 
across all products. We estimate the total undiscounted annual cost 
savings to range from $914,620 to $1,280,468.
    In Table R-3, we estimate the total annual hours saved from the 
proposed criteria revisions to range from 155,834 to 627,141 among 328 
developers of certified health IT and 418 certified products. Using the 
labor rate of $139, described above, we estimate the total undiscounted 
annual cost savings to range from $21,660,9326 to $87,172,599. We 
welcome comments on the proposed methodology and the accuracy and 
validity of the estimates.

[[Page 61022]]



                                                 Table R-3--Panel A--Estimates of Labor Hours Saved for the Revisions of Certification Criteria
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Total hours                    Annual hours           Percent effort                                            Hours saved
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Developers       Products    -------------------------------
               Criterion citation                       LB              UB              LB              UB             Saved         certified       certified          LB              UB
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sec.   170.315(a)(5)............................             720           1,860              36              93            100%             288             352          12,672          32,736
Sec.   170.315(b)(1)............................           3,000           4,000             450             600             60%             256             300          81,000         108,000
Sec.   170.315(b)(11) Task 1. Annual Maintenance           2,200           4,600             264             552             80%             183             232          48,952         102,544
Sec.   170.315(b)(11) Task 2. Information                      0           1,370               0           1,370            100%             183             232               0         317,840
 Updates........................................
Sec.   170.315(e)(1)............................            1300            2000               8              24             20%             215             255           6,630          10,200
Sec.   170.315(f)(5)............................               0           2,160               0             216             63%              94             127               0          46,609
Sec.   170.315(f)(6)............................           1,000           1,400              60              84             70%              28              47           6,580           9,212
All criteria....................................  ..............  ..............  ..............  ..............  ..............             328             418         155,834         627,141
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 61023]]


   Table R-3--Panel B--Annual Cost Savings Estimates for Revisions of
                         Certification Criteria
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Annual cost savings
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Criterion citation                   LB              UB
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sec.   170.315(a)(5)....................      $1,761,408      $4,550,304
Sec.   170.315(b)(1)....................      11,259,000      15,012,000
Sec.   170.315(b)(11)...................       6,804,328      58,433,376
Sec.   170.315(e)(1)....................         921,570       1,417,800
Sec.   170.315(f)(5)....................               0       6,478,651
Sec.   170.315(f)(6)....................         914,620       1,280,468
                                         -------------------------------
    Total Annual Cost Savings...........      21,660,926      87,172,599
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note: The lower and upper bound cost estimates use the hourly wage
  ($139.00) we describe above in ``Employee Assumptions and Hourly
  Wage''.

2.2 Revisions to Standards and Implementation Specifications for Health 
Information Technology
2.2.1 Revisions to the United States Core Data for Interoperability 
(USCDI) v3
    We propose to codify certification guidance for the Certification 
Program exercising our enforcement discretion--specifically, for the 
United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) v3 standard.\98\ 
The action removed or revised data elements from USCDI v3, as finalized 
in the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1192).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \98\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/uscdi-v3-data-elements-enforcement-discretion-notice.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    As finalized in the HTI-1 Final Rule, developers of certified 
health IT were required to update and certify their Health IT Modules 
to adopt USCDI v3 by January 1, 2026. This proposal reduces the effort 
for developers of certified health IT to adopt the USCDI v3 via the 
removal or revision of two data elements: sexual orientation and gender 
identity. We do not estimate reduced effort from ongoing maintenance of 
these requirements, as the effort is considered part of activities that 
occurred prior to the effective date of any final rule. We request 
comments on this approach.
2.3 Revisions to the ONC Health IT Certification Program Administration
    Unless noted differently, proposed revisions to Certification 
Program administration conform to revisions proposed elsewhere related 
to Certification Program requirements. We do not assess net new cost 
savings or costs to program administration for these conforming 
revisions. We welcome comments on whether these conforming revisions 
create net new cost savings or costs.
2.3.1 Principles of Proper Conduct for ONC-ACBs
    Under the principles of proper conduct for ONC-ACBs, we propose to 
revise the ``certified product listing'' principle in Sec.  
170.523(f)(1)(viii) to remove requirements on ONC-ACBs to include the 
test data version used and whether any test data was altered for the 
certification criterion or criteria to which the Health IT Module has 
been certified. This proposed revision is meant to reduce the overall 
effort for ONC-ACBs for this principle, as our analysis shows that 
these data elements for the ``certified product listing'' are low 
value. We determined that the cost savings to ONC-ACBs are de minimis, 
and welcome comments on this analysis. In addition, we propose 
conforming revisions to the principles of proper conduct for ONC-ACBs. 
These conforming revisions do not create net new cost savings to 
developers of certified health IT, ASTP/ONC, or ONC-ACBs. These conform 
to revisions made elsewhere to Certification Program requirements, and 
cost savings, if applicable, are assessed elsewhere in this impact 
analysis.
2.3.2 Principles of Proper Conduct for ONC-ATLs
    We propose conforming revisions to the principles of proper conduct 
for ONC-ATLs. These conforming revisions do not create net new cost 
savings to developers of certified health IT, ASTP/ONC, or ONC-ATLs. 
These conform to revisions made elsewhere to Certification Program 
requirements, and cost savings, if applicable, are assessed elsewhere 
in this impact analysis.
2.3.3 Health IT Module Certification
    We propose conforming revisions to Health IT Module certification. 
These conforming revisions do not create net new cost savings to 
developers of certified health IT, ASTP/ONC, or ONC-ACBs. These conform 
to revisions made elsewhere to Certification Program requirements, and 
cost savings, if applicable, are assessed elsewhere in this impact 
analysis.
2.3.4 Certification to Newer Versions of Certain Standards
    We propose conforming revisions to certification to newer versions 
of certain standards. These conforming revisions do not create net new 
cost savings to developers of certified health IT, ASTP/ONC, or ONC-
ACBs. These conform to revisions made elsewhere to Certification 
Program requirements, and cost savings, if applicable, are assessed 
elsewhere in this impact analysis.
2.3.5 Effect of Revocation on the Certifications Issued to Health IT 
Module(s)
    We propose conforming revisions that do not create net new cost 
savings.
2.4 Revisions to Conditions and Maintenance of Certification 
Requirements for Health IT Developers (Subpart D)
2.4.1 Assurances Condition of Certification
    We propose updates to the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that do 
not create net new cost savings.
2.4.2 Application Programming Interfaces Condition of Certification
    We propose updates to the CFR that do not create net new cost 
savings.
2.4.3 Real World Testing Condition of Certification
    We propose revisions to the Real World Testing Condition of 
Certification that de-scope reporting requirements and codify 
certification guidance for the Certification Program exercising our 
enforcement discretion for the Condition of Certification.\99\ As 
finalized in the Cures Act Final Rule (85 FR 25642), real world testing 
would be

[[Page 61024]]

applicable for specific criteria--at the time of finalization, 23 
criteria in all. This deregulatory action revises the Real World 
Testing Condition of Certification to apply reporting to only the API 
criteria adopted by the Certification Program. This revision creates 
cost savings to developers of certified health IT, as developers would 
no longer be required to plan, collect, and report on real world 
testing results for the full originally finalized set of criteria. We 
explain below the rationale and methodology that informed the cost 
savings for these proposed revisions to real world testing.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \99\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/real-world-testing-condition-and-maintenance-certification-requirements-enforcement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The proposed revisions to real world testing would take effect 
beginning in 2027. Cost savings to developers for ongoing compliance 
are, therefore, estimated beginning in 2027. Any costs for 2024 and 
2025 are considered sunk. Beginning in the 2026 reporting year, as 
permitted in the real world testing enforcement discretion, only 
developers of certified APIs would be required to report for real world 
testing, specifically developers who certify to the standardized API 
for patient and population services certification criterion, Sec.  
170.315(g)(10).\100\ Cost savings calculations beginning in 2027 
reflect the decreased burden on developers of certified health IT to 
comply with the condition of certification minus requirements that 
remain in place for developers who certify to the applicable API-based 
criteria.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \100\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/real-world-testing-condition-and-maintenance-certification-requirements-enforcement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    As of the end of 2024, using publicly available Certification 
Program data, we calculated that 336 developers had submitted real 
world testing plans for 2025 collection and 2026 reporting.\101\ That 
is 93 fewer developers required to report for real world testing than 
estimated in the Cures Act Final Rule--a decrease of about 19 
developers per year.\102\ Calculating developer exits during this time 
period, after the Cures Act Final Rule took effect and prior to this 
proposed rule's effective date, is important to assess the estimated 
number of developers expected to comply with the remaining real world 
testing requirements, as proposed.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \101\ https://chpl.healthit.gov/.
    \102\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2020/05/01/2020-07419/21st-century-cures-act-interoperability-information-blocking-and-the-onc-health-it-certification.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Beginning in 2026, we calculated an expected count of developers 
who we estimated would be required to report for real world testing in 
2026 and beyond. This count assumes attrition from the original count 
of developers required to report for real world testing as finalized in 
the Cures Act Final Rule, as we described above for years prior to 
2026. But given the changed program dynamics, in that real world 
testing would be required only for developers of certified APIs, the 
attrition rate beyond 2026 is harder to estimate. Given that current 
requirements are applicable for over 20 criteria adopted in the 
Certification Program and our attrition rate is based on participant 
exits from the Certification Program (for developers who certify for 
any of these criteria), we assume that attrition rate is likely more 
profound than exits for developers of certified APIs alone. We 
therefore estimate a new rate of developers who would be required to 
report for real world testing in total (n=320), beginning in 2026.
    In our RIA for the HTI-4 Final Rule (included in the FY2026 IPPS/
LTHC PPS Final Rule (90 FR 36536) as an ancillary provision), we 
estimated that beginning in 2027, approximately 189 developers would 
certify an electronic prior authorization API. The 189 count is a proxy 
measure, representing our estimation of the number of developers that 
would certify the Sec.  170.315(g)(10) certification criterion in 2027.
    Given that the revised Real World Testing Condition of 
Certification would only be associated with developers of certified 
APIs, we estimate beginning in 2026 that approximately 189 developers 
would be subject to the revised real world testing requirements. We 
used this count (189) to determine the net number of developers who 
would have been required to report for real world testing under the 
original requirements (inclusive of those who would have reported Sec.  
170.315(g)(10) testing results under the original requirements.)
    At the end of 2024, of the 336 developers required to report for 
real world testing, 198 developers certified to the Sec.  
170.315(g)(10) certification criterion or 59% of all developers. Using 
this rate, we estimate that beginning in 2026, approximately 320 
developers would be subject to real world testing requirements, as 
finalized by the Cures Act Final Rule.\103\ In 2026, however, only 189 
developers would be subject to revised real world testing 
requirements--our estimate of the number of developers who would be 
subject to revised real world testing requirements (API only.) This 
considers some attrition but at a different rate than used for years 
prior to 2026, as explained above.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \103\ Formula: 189/(1-0.41) = 320.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Total savings beginning in 2027 are considered consistent and do 
not decrease due to future unknown attrition; however, we consider 
these cost savings to be realized by developers when the revised 
requirements take effect. If they were to exit the program in a year 
beyond 2027, these are still cost savings to be realized today from 
requirements they do not need to meet in all future years.
    Beginning in 2027, cost savings are calculated by totaling the cost 
to all developers who certify real world testing applicable criteria to 
meet current real world testing requirements as finalized in the Cures 
Act Final Rule and revised in subsequent rulemakings (the HTI-1 Final 
Rule and the HTI-4 Final Rule) and subtracting the remaining cost for 
developers of certified APIs to comply with revised real world testing 
requirements. We estimate that, per developer, the cost of collecting 
and reporting real world testing data on Sec.  170.315(g)(10) would be 
on average $4,400 annually. We estimate this by calculating the average 
cost per criterion to meet real world testing requirements as finalized 
by the Cures Act Final Rule ($109,557/23 = $4,763) and decrease that by 
the proposed eliminated effort to submit annual testing plans 
(estimated to be 8% of total annual testing effort.) \104\ This is 
congruent with our methodology finalized in the HTI-4 Final Rule about 
the average per criterion cost to plan, collect, and report for real 
world testing.\105\ The total cost of the remaining requirement to test 
for Sec.  170.315(g)(10) would be subtracted from the total original 
program cost, as finalized by the Cures Act Final Rule, to estimate 
this deregulatory action's annual cost savings.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \104\ Formula: $4,763 x (1-0.08) = $4,382.
    \105\ https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-14681/p-7025.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Beginning in 2027, we also assume that developers of certified APIs 
would need to meet requirements for Sec.  170.315(g)(10), as well as 
for Sec.  170.315(g)(31), (g)(32), and (g)(33), as finalized in the 
HTI-4 Final Rule.\106\ Real world testing requirements for the 
certification criteria adopted in Sec.  170.315(g)(31), (g)(32), and 
(g)(33) were finalized in the HTI-4 Final Rule and would be a net new 
cost minus revisions to real world testing for developers not to submit 
annual testing plans. Furthermore, we also updated real world testing 
requirements in the HTI-4 Final Rule to include the new

[[Page 61025]]

Sec.  170.315(b)(4) certification criterion, which created net new 
costs to developers for real world testing. This deregulatory action 
now removes the Sec.  170.315(b)(4) real world testing requirement and 
so we also assess the cost savings from that revision beginning in 2027 
as well.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \106\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/08/04/2025-14681/medicare-program-hospital-inpatient-prospective-payment-systems-for-acute-care-hospitals-ipps-and.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    We estimate cost savings for reduced upfront effort in 2027 to be 
(original real world testing costs + Sec.  170.315(b)(4) planning 
costs) minus (Sec.  170.315(g)(10) revised costs), which equal $35.1 
million in undiscounted cost savings for 2026. For costs savings, 
beginning in 2027 and in perpetuity, we estimate that together, 
(original real world testing costs + Sec.  170.315(b)(4) costs) minus 
((g)(10)+(g)(31)+(g)(32)+(g)(33) revised costs) equal the estimated 
annual undiscounted cost savings of $33.6 million.
2.4.4 Attestations
    We propose updates to the CFR that do not create net new cost 
savings.
2.4.5 Insights Condition of Certification
    In the HTI-1 Final Rule (89 FR 1192), we finalized requirements for 
developers to report on the Insights Condition of Certification, a set 
of uniform measures collected and reported by developers of certified 
health IT about the performance of their certified technology.\107\ 
Applicable developers would be required to begin data collection 
January 1, 2026, for ``Year 1'' measures, with results reported in July 
2027 and with ``Year 2'' measures set to begin collection January 1, 
2027. Effort to plan and develop capabilities for these finalized 
measures was estimated to begin after the effective date of the HTI-1 
Final Rule in January 2024. Effort to plan and develop the measurement 
capabilities for measures required to be collected in 2026 (``Year 1'') 
would be completed by January 1, 2026, and effort to plan and develop 
the measurement capabilities for measures required to be collected for 
the first time in 2027 (``Year 2'') would be completed by January 1, 
2027, etc. We estimated developers would face annual data collection 
and reporting costs beginning in 2026 and in perpetuity. As we 
finalized in the HTI-1 Final Rule, the large majority of costs to 
developers of certified health IT would be costs to plan and develop 
for initial data collection of the finalized measures (effort largely 
expended from 2024-2026 in our original analysis).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \107\ https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/01/09/2023-28857/health-data-technology-and-interoperability-certification-program-updates-algorithm-transparency-and.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ASTP/ONC issued enforcement discretion in April 2025 that 
effectively de-scoped Insights requirements on developers to a single 
measure--``Use of FHIR''--a ``Year 1'' measure.\108\ The enforcement 
discretion effectively paused development and planning efforts to 
collect all Insights measures but one (``Use of FHIR''), reducing sunk 
costs and creating cost savings to developers by reducing the upfront 
effort to plan and report for Insights. We propose to codify 
certification guidance for the Certification Program exercising our 
enforcement discretion for the Insights Condition of Certification. We 
explain below the rationale and methodology that informed the cost 
savings for these proposed revisions to Insights.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \108\ https://www.healthit.gov/topic/insights-condition-and-maintenance-certification-enforcement-discretion.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    To calculate cost savings associated with the proposed revisions to 
the Insights Condition of Certification, we subtracted the estimated 
amount for developers to report for the remaining Insights measure 
(``Use of FHIR'') from the estimated cost for developers to meet the 
Insights Condition of Certification, as finalized in the HTI-1 Final 
Rule. In Table 35 of the HTI-1 Final Rule, we estimated that the upper 
bound cost for all developers to report on the ``Use of FHIR'' measure 
over a ten-year period was $36.3 million.\109\ The total upper bound 
cost to report on all measures for all developers over a ten-year 
period was $218.7 million. Therefore, we estimate the ``Use of FHIR'' 
measure to be 17% of all estimated Insights costs.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \109\ https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2023-28857/p-2641.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In Table R-4 we show the undiscounted revised costs for the 
Insights Condition of Certification. We estimated, on average, that the 
HTI-1 Final Rule costs for Insights would be $137.9 million. We 
estimated that the cost for developers to begin implementing Insights 
in 2024 (toward effort to collect and report on measures in 2026 and 
2027) would on average, total $46.4 million. This included initial 
planning and development costs for all measures with more assumed 
effort toward completing work to prepare for ``Year 1'' measures set to 
begin collection January 1, 2026. We consider these costs as sunk. The 
Insights enforcement discretion, however, reduced effort for ongoing 
planning and development work for 2025 and after. We consider this 
reduced effort in 2025 and 2026 and reduced effort to meet this 
requirements in years 2027 and after to be a net cost savings to 
developers, as Table R-4 shows.
    Cost savings in 2027 and thereafter are considered tied to the 
reduced effort associated with ongoing planning and reporting for the 
proposed revised requirements. The total undiscounted cost savings for 
this reduced ongoing effort, beginning in 2027, are $12.7 million 
(Table R-4).

                              Table R-4--Revised Insights Undiscounted Cost Savings
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              Year                                Upfront effort  Ongoing effort       Total
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2024............................................................              $0              $0              $0
2025............................................................      38,513,661               0      38,513,661
2026............................................................      24,814,672               0      24,814,672
2027............................................................               0       8,601,676       8,601,676
2028............................................................               0         680,593         680,593
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
    Total--Undiscounted.........................................      63,328,333      12,685,234      76,013,568
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

b. Accounting Statement and Table
    This proposed rule, if finalized as proposed, is expected to be an 
E.O. 14192 deregulatory action. The proposals remove or reduce 
requirements on developers of certified health IT. No proposals create 
net new requirements or additional burden to comply with existing 
requirements. However, we do estimate some costs for reviewers who 
review this proposed rule. We estimate those costs to be

[[Page 61026]]

$284,132 in total for an estimated 644 reviewers, which include 
developers and medical associations. As articulated in the preamble, 
these proposed deregulatory actions reduce the effort of developers of 
certified health IT to meet ongoing program requirements and reduce 
barriers to entry for new program participants, generating benefits to 
developers of certified health IT in the form of time back to them to 
innovate their technology and focus on the needs of their clients and 
end users. We do not, however, quantify these benefits, and instead 
rely on our calculation of cost savings to developers of certified 
health IT to quantify in dollars the time and effort developers would 
have expended had these requirements remained in effect in perpetuity. 
We estimate that these proposals do generate significant cost savings 
for developers of certified health IT.
    To calculate the cost savings associated with this proposed 
rulemaking, we replicate the analysis of prior finalized rulemakings 
and align those with current data, adopting, where necessary, novel 
methodologies and models to assess the current costs to developers of 
certified health IT of the proposed revisions to the Certification 
Program. As shown in Table R-5, we present the undiscounted cost 
savings over ten years and in Table R-6 we present the discounted cost 
savings associated with these proposals. In Table R-6, we adopt a 3% 
and 7% discount rate consistent with Circular A-4 (2003).\110\ Cost 
savings for this proposed rulemaking include savings from reduced 
ongoing effort to comply with finalized requirements, as shown in 
Tables R-5 and R-6. In total, this proposed rulemaking would result in 
a present value of cost savings of $1.53 billion in 2024 dollars and 
discounted at a rate of 7%, beginning in 2027 and in perpetuity, 
consistent with analytic guidance on E.O. 14192, as shown in Table R-
7.\111\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \110\ https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/circulars/A4/a-4.pdf.
    \111\ https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/M-25-20-Guidance-Implementing-Section-3-of-Executive-Order-14192-Titled-Unleashing-Prosperity-Through-Deregulation.pdf.

                                                Table R-5--E.O. 12866 Summary Table Non-Discounted Flows
                                                                     [2024 Dollars]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Costs....................................................           $284,132  .................  .................  .................  .................
Cost Savings.............................................     174,843,873.10    $166,922,790.67    $166,922,790.67    $166,922,790.67    $166,922,790.67
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      Year 6             Year 7             Year 8             Year 9            Year 10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Costs....................................................  .................  .................  .................  .................  .................
Cost Savings.............................................     166,922,790.67     166,922,790.67     166,922,790.67     166,922,790.67     166,922,790.67
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   Table R-6--E.O. 12866 Summary Table
                             [2024 Dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       Primary (3%)       Primary (7%)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Present Value of Quantified Costs.        $275,856.31        $265,543.93
Present Value of Quantified Cost     2,491,079,993.12   1,775,785,303.03
 Savings..........................
Present Value of Net Cost Savings.   2,490,804,136.81   1,775,519,759.11
Annualized Quantified Costs.......          18,541.88          25,065.47
Annualized Quantified Cost Savings     167,439,704.42     167,621,570.24
Annualized Net Quantified Cost         167,421,162.54     167,596,504.78
 Savings..........................
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   Table R-7--E.O. 14192 Summary Table
                             [2024 Dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          Primary (7%)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Present Value of Quantified Costs....................        $265,543.93
Present Value of Quantified Cost Savings.............   1,525,278,264.39
Present Value of Net Cost Savings....................   1,525,012,720.46
Annualized Quantified Costs..........................          25,065.47
Annualized Quantified Cost Savings...................     143,975,477.95
Annualized Net Quantified Cost Savings...............     143,950,412.48
------------------------------------------------------------------------

C. Regulatory Flexibility Act

    The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) requires agencies to analyze 
options for regulatory relief of small businesses if a rule has a 
significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Small 
Business Administration (SBA) establishes the size of small businesses 
for Federal Government programs based on average annual receipts or the 
average employment of a firm.\112\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \112\ The SBA references that annual receipts mean ``total 
income'' (or in the case of a sole proprietorship, ``gross income'') 
plus ``cost of goods sold'' as these terms are defined and reported 
on Internal Revenue Service tax return forms.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The entities that are likely to be directly affected by the 
requirements in this proposed rule are health IT developers. We note 
that the reasonable and necessary activities identified by the 
Secretary as not constituting information blocking are themselves 
exceptions to compliance with the information blocking definition and

[[Page 61027]]

provide relief for those entities subject to the information blocking 
regulations. We refer readers to section IV for our information 
blocking-related proposals and welcome comments on their impacts on 
small entities.
    While health IT developers that pursue certification of their 
health IT under the Certification Program represent a small segment of 
the overall information technology industry, we believe that many 
health IT developers impacted by the requirements proposed in this 
proposed rule most likely fall under the North American Industry 
Classification System (NAICS) code 541511 ``Custom Computer Programming 
Services.''
    OMB advised that the Federal statistical establishment data 
published for reference years beginning on or after January 1, 2022, 
should be published using the 2022 NAICS United States codes.\113\ The 
SBA size standard associated with this NAICS code is set at $34 million 
annual receipts or less. There is enough data generally available to 
establish that between 75% and 90% of entities that are categorized 
under the NAICS code 541511 are under the SBA size standard. We also 
note that with the exception of aggregate business information 
available through the U.S. Census Bureau and the SBA related to NAICS 
code 541511, it appears that many health IT developers that pursue 
certification of their health IT under the Certification Program are 
privately held or owned and do not regularly, if at all, make their 
specific annual receipts publicly available. As a result, it is 
difficult to locate empirical data related to many of these health IT 
developers to correlate to the SBA size standard. However, although not 
perfectly correlated to the size standard for NAICS code 541511, we do 
have information indicating that over 60% of health IT developers that 
have had Complete EHRs and/or Health IT Modules certified to the 2011 
Edition have less than 51 employees.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \113\ https://www.sba.gov/article/2022/feb/01/guidance-using-naics-2022-procurement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    With the exception of rule review costs, this proposed rulemaking 
is deregulatory and does not create new requirements on developers of 
certified health IT, including small businesses. We believe the 
proposed deregulatory actions will create net cost savings for 
developers and would not create a significant economic impact on a 
substantial number of small entities. Additionally, the Secretary 
proposes to certify that this proposed rule would not have a 
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 
However, we request comments on whether: there are (and how many) small 
entities that currently pursue certification of health IT under the 
Certification Program; what products they certify; whether there are 
any negative or unintended costs for small entities from the proposals 
included in this proposed rule; and whether small entities will 
significantly benefit from the proposals include in this proposed rule.

D. Executive Order 13132--Federalism

    E.O. 13132 establishes certain requirements that an agency must 
meet when it promulgates a proposed rule (and subsequent final rule) 
that imposes substantial direct requirement costs on State and local 
governments, preempts State law, or otherwise has federalism 
implications. Nothing in this proposed rule imposes substantial direct 
compliance costs on State and local governments, preempts State law, or 
otherwise has federalism implications. We are not aware of any State 
laws or regulations that are contradicted or impeded by any of the 
proposals in this proposed rule. We welcome comments on this 
assessment.

E. Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995

    Section 202 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 requires 
that agencies assess anticipated costs and benefits before issuing any 
rule that imposes unfunded mandates on State, local, and Tribal 
governments or the private sector requiring spending in any one year of 
$100 million in 1995 dollars, updated annually for inflation. The 
current inflation-adjusted statutory threshold is approximately $187 
million in 2025. This proposed rule is deregulatory, and, therefore, 
the estimated potential cost effects of this proposed rule do not reach 
the statutory threshold. This proposed rule does not impose unfunded 
mandates on State, local, and Tribal governments, or the private 
sector. We welcome comments on these conclusions.

List of Subjects

45 CFR Part 170

    Computer technology, Electronic health record, Electronic 
information system, Electronic transactions, Health, Healthcare, Health 
information technology, Health insurance, Health records, Hospitals, 
Incorporation by reference, Laboratories, Medicaid, Medicare, Privacy, 
Reporting and record keeping requirements, Public health, Security.

45 CFR Part 171

    Computer technology, Electronic health record, Electronic 
information system, Electronic transactions, Health, Healthcare, Health 
care provider, Health information exchange, Health information 
technology, Health information network, Health insurance, Health 
records, Hospitals, Privacy, Public health, Reporting and record 
keeping requirements, Security.
    For the reasons set forth in the preamble, HHS proposes to amend 45 
CFR subtitle A, subchapter D, as follows:

PART 170--HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION 
SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION 
PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

0
1. The authority citation for part 170 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 42 U.S.C. 300jj-11; 42 U.S.C 300jj-14; 5 U.S.C. 552

0
2. Amend Sec.  170.102 by:
0
a. In the definition of ``Base EHR'':
0
i. Revising paragraph (3)(i); and
0
ii. Removing and reserving paragraphs (3)(ii) and (iii); and
0
b. Removing definitions for ``Common Clinical Data Set,'' ``Global 
Unique Device Identification Database (GUDID),'' and ``Production 
Identifier.''
    The revision reads as follows:


Sec.  170.102  Definitions.

* * * * *
    Base EHR * * *
    (3) * * *
    (i) Section 170.315(a)(1), (2), or (3), (a)(5), (b)(1) and (11), 
(c)(1), and (g)(10).
* * * * *
0
3. Revising and republishing Sec.  170.202 to read as follows:


Sec.  170.202  Transport standards and other protocols.

    The Secretary adopts the following transport standard: ONC 
Applicability Statement for Secure Health Transport, Version 1.2 
(incorporated by reference in Sec.  170.299).


Sec.  170.204  [Removed and Reserved]

0
4. Removing and reserving Sec.  170.204.
0
5. Amend Sec.  170.205 by:
0
a. Removing and reserving paragraphs (a)(3) and (5);
0
b. Revising paragraphs (d)(2) and (i)(2);
0
c. Removing and reserving paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) and (r)(1); and
0
d. Revising paragraphs (s)(1) and (t)(1) through (4).
    The revisions read as follows:

[[Page 61028]]

Sec.  170. 205  Content exchange standards and implementation 
specifications for exchanging electronic health information.

* * * * *
    (d) * * *
    (2) Standard. HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.5.1 (incorporated by 
reference in Sec.  170.299).
* * * * *
    (i) * * *
    (2) Standard. HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 
2.0, Normative Edition (incorporated by reference in Sec.  170.299). 
Implementation specifications. HL7 CDA(copyright) Release 2 
Implementation Guide: Reporting to Public Health Cancer Registries from 
Ambulatory Healthcare Providers, Release 1; DSTU Release 1.1, Volume 
1--Introductory Material and HL7 CDA(copyright) Release 2 
Implementation Guide: Reporting to Public Health Cancer Registries from 
Ambulatory Healthcare Providers, Release 1; DSTU Release 1.1 (US 
Realm), Volume 2--Templates and Supporting Material (incorporated by 
reference in Sec.  170.299). The adoption of this standard expires on 
January 1, 2027.
* * * * *
    (s) * * *
    (1) Standard. HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: 
National Health Care Surveys (NHCS), Release 1--US Realm, HL7 Draft 
Standard for Trial Use, Volume 1--Introductory Material and HL7 
Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: National Health Care 
Surveys (NHCS), Release 1--US Realm, HL7 Draft Standard for Trial Use, 
Volume 2--Templates and Supporting Material (incorporated by reference 
in Sec.  170.299). The adoption of this standard expires on January 1, 
2027.
* * * * *
    (t) * * *
    (1) Standard. HL7[supreg] FHIR[supreg] Implementation Guide: 
Electronic Case Reporting (eCR)--US Realm 2.1.0--STU 2 US (HL7 FHIR eCR 
IG) (incorporated by reference, see Sec.  170.299). The adoption of 
this standard expires on January 1, 2027.
    (2) Standard. HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: Public 
Health Case Report--the Electronic Initial Case Report (eICR) Release 
2, STU Release 3.1--US Realm (HL7 CDA eICR IG) (incorporated by 
reference, see Sec.  170.299). The adoption of this standard expires on 
January 1, 2027.
    (3) Standard. HL7[supreg] CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: 
Reportability Response, Release 1, STU Release 1.1--US Realm (HL7 CDA 
RR IG) (incorporated by reference, see Sec.  170.299). The adoption of 
this standard expires on January 1, 2027.
    (4) Standard. Reportable Conditions Trigger Codes Value Set for 
Electronic Case Reporting. (incorporated by reference, see Sec.  
170.299). The adoption of this standard expires on January 1, 2027.
* * * * *


Sec.  170.207  [Amended]

0
6. Amend Sec.  170.207 by:
0
a. Removing paragraphs (a)(4) and (c)(3);
0
b. Removing and reserving paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (iii);
0
c. Removing paragraphs (e)(3) and (4);
0
d. Removing and reserving paragraphs (f)(2), (m)(1), (n)(1) and (3), 
and (o); and
0
e. Removing paragraphs (r) and (s).


Sec.  170.210  [Removed and Reserved]

0
7. Removing and reserving Sec.  170.210.
0
8. Revising Sec.  170.213 to read as follows:


Sec.  170.213  United States Core Data for Interoperability.

    The Secretary adopts the following versions of the United States 
Core Data for Interoperability standard:
    (a) Standard. United States Core Data for Interoperability Version 
3.1 (USCDI v3.1) (incorporated by reference, see Sec.  170.299).
    (b) [Reserved]


Sec.  170.215  [Amended]

0
9. Amend Sec.  170.215 by removing and reserving paragraphs (b)(1)(i) 
and (c)(1).
0
10. Revising and republishing Sec.  170.299 to read as follows:


Sec.  170.299  Incorporation by reference.

    (a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part 
with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 
U.S.C. 552(b) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by 
reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and at the National 
Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact HHS at: U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the National 
Coordinator for Health Information Technology, 330 C Street SW, 
Washington, DC 20201; call ahead to arrange for inspection at 202-690-
7151. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, 
visit www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations or email 
fr.inspection@nara.gov. The material may be obtained from the sources 
in the following paragraphs of this section.
    (b) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2500 Century 
Parkway, Mailstop E-78, Atlanta, GA 30333; phone: (800) 232-4636); 
website: www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/index.html.
    (1)-(3) [ Reserved]
    (4) HL7 2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging 
Release 1.0, May 1, 2010, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205.
    (5) PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency 
Department and Urgent Care Data, ADT Messages A01, A03, A04, and A08, 
HL7 Version 2.5.1 (Version 2.3.1 Compatible), Release 1.1, August 2012, 
IBR approved for Sec.  170.205.
    (6) Conformance Clarification for EHR Certification of Electronic 
Syndromic Surveillance, ADT MESSAGES A01, A03, A04, and A08, HL7 
Version 2.5.1, Addendum to PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic 
Surveillance: Emergency Department and Urgent Care Data (Release 1.1), 
August 2012, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205.
    (7)-(8) [Reserved]
    (9) ELR 2.5.1 Clarification Document for EHR Technology 
Certification, July 16, 2012, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205.
    (10) PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency 
Department, Urgent Care, Inpatient and Ambulatory Care Settings, 
Release 2.0, April 21, 2015, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(d).
    (11) Erratum to the CDC PHIN 2.0 Implementation Guide, August 2015; 
Erratum to the CDC PHIN 2.0 Messaging Guide, April 2015 Release for 
Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department, Urgent Care, Inpatient 
and Ambulatory Care Settings, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(d).
    (12) HL7 2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging, 
Release 1.5, October 1, 2014, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(e).
    (13) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization 
Messaging (Release 1.5)--Addendum, July 2015, IBR approved for Sec.  
170.205(e).
    (14)-(16) [Reserved]
    (17) HL7[supreg] Standard Code Set CVX--Vaccines Administered, 
dated June 15, 2022; IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(e).
    (18) National Drug Code Directory (NDC)--Vaccine NDC Linker, dated 
July 19, 2022; IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(e).
    (19) CDC Race and Ethnicity Code Set version 1.2 (July 08, 2021); 
IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(f).
    (c) Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Office of Clinical 
Standards and Quality, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 
21244; phone: (410) 786-3000; website: www.cms.gov.
    (1) CMS PQRI 2009 Registry XML Specifications, IBR approved for 
Sec.  170.205.
    (2) 2009 Physician Quality Reporting Initiative Measure 
Specifications Manual for Claims and Registry, Version

[[Page 61029]]

3.0, December 8, 2008 IBR approved for Sec.  170.205.
    (3) [Reserved]
    (4) CMS Implementation Guide for Quality Reporting Document 
Architecture: Category I; Hospital Quality Reporting Implementation 
Guide for 2020; published December 3, 2019, IBR approved for Sec.  
170.205(h).
    (5) CMS Implementation Guide for Quality Reporting Document 
Architecture: Category III; Eligible Clinicians and Eligible 
Professionals Programs Implementation Guide for 2020; published April 
30, 2020, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(k).
    (d) Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists, 2635 Century 
Parkway NE, Suite 700, Atlanta, GA 30345; phone: (770) 458-3811; 
website: www.cste.org/.
    (1) Reportable Conditions Trigger Codes Value Set for Electronic 
Case Reporting. RCTC OID: 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.7508, Release March 
29, 2022; IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(t).
    (2) [Reserved]
    (e) Health Level Seven, 3300 Washtenaw Avenue, Suite 227, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48104; phone: (734) 677-7777; website: www.hl7.org/.
    (1) [Reserved]
    (2) Health Level Seven Messaging Standard Version 2.5.1 (HL7 
2.5.1), An Application Protocol for Electronic Data Exchange in 
Healthcare Environments, February 21, 2007, IBR approved for Sec.  
170.205.
    (3) [Reserved]
    (4) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory 
Reporting to Public Health, Release 1 (US Realm) HL7 Version 2.5.1: 
ORU-R01, HL7 Informative Document, February, 2010, IBR approved for 
Sec.  170.205.
    (5)-(8) [Reserved]
    (9) HL7 Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2.0, Normative 
Edition, May 2005, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205.
    (10)-(11) [Reserved]
    (12) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: Quality 
Reporting Document Architecture, DTSU Release 2 (Universal Realm), 
Draft Standard for Trial Use, July 2012, IBR approved for Sec.  
170.205.
    (13) HL7 v2.5.1 IG: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public 
Health (US Realm), Release 1 Errata and Clarifications, September, 29, 
2011, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205.
    (14)-(17) [Reserved]
    (18) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: 
Consolidated CDA Templates for Clinical Notes (US Realm), Draft 
Standard for Trial Use, Volume 1--Introductory Material, Release 2.1, 
August 2015, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(a).
    (19) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: 
Consolidated CDA Templates for Clinical Notes (US Realm), Draft 
Standard for Trial Use, Volume 2--Templates and Supporting Material, 
Release 2.1, August 2015, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(a).
    (20) HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: Quality Reporting 
Document Architecture--Category I (QRDA I); Release 1, DSTU Release 3 
(US Realm), Volume 1--Introductory Material, June 2015, IBR approved 
for Sec.  170.205(h).
    (21) HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: Quality Reporting 
Document Architecture--Category I (QRDA I); Release 1, DSTU Release 3 
(US Realm), Volume 2--Templates and Supporting Material, June 2015, IBR 
approved for Sec.  170.205(h).
    (22)-(24) [Reserved]
    (25) HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Data Segmentation for 
Privacy (DS4P), Release 1, Part 1: CDA R2 and Privacy Metadata Reusable 
Content Profile, May 16, 2014, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(o).
    (26) [Reserved]
    (27) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: National 
Health Care Surveys (NHCS), Release 1--US Realm, HL7 Draft Standard for 
Trial Use, Volume 1--Introductory Material, December 2014, IBR approved 
for Sec.  170.205(s).
    (28) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA[supreg] Release 2: National 
Health Care Surveys (NHCS), Release 1--US Realm, HL7 Draft Standard for 
Trial Use, Volume 2--Templates and Supporting Material, December 2014, 
IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(s).
    (29-30) [Reserved]
    (31) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Bulk Data Access (Flat FHIR[supreg]) (v1.0.0: 
STU 1), August 22, 2019, IBR approved for Sec.  170.215(a).
    (32) HL7 FHIR SMART Application Launch Framework Implementation 
Guide Release 1.0.0, November 13, 2018, IBR approved for Sec.  
170.215(a).
    (33) HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification 
(FHIR[supreg]) Release 4, Version 4.0.1: R4, October 30, 2019, 
including Technical Correction #1, November 1, 2019, IBR approved for 
Sec.  170.215(a).
    (34) HL7 FHIR[supreg] US Core Implementation Guide STU3 Release 
3.1.1, August 28, 2020, IBR approved for Sec.  170.215(a).
    (35) HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA Templates for 
Clinical Notes STU Companion Guide, Release 4.1 (US Realm) Standard for 
Trial Use, Specification Version: 4.1.1, June 2023 (including 
appendices A and B); IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(a).
    (36) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Implementation Guide: Electronic Case 
Reporting (eCR)--US Realm, Version 2.1.0--STU 2 US (HL7 FHIR eCR IG), 
August 31, 2022; IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(t).
    (37) HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: Public Health Case 
Report--the Electronic Initial Case Report (eICR) Release 2, STU 
Release 3.1--US Realm (HL7 CDA eICR IG), July 2022, volumes 1 and 2; 
IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(t).
    (38) HL7 CDA[supreg] R2 Implementation Guide: Reportability 
Response, Release 1, STU Release 1.1--US Realm (HL7 CDA RR IG), July 
2022, volumes 1 through 4; IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(t).
    (39) HL7 FHIR US Core Implementation Guide Version 6.1.0--STU 6, 
June 19, 2023; IBR approved for Sec.  170.215(b).
    (40) HL7 FHIR[supreg] SMART App Launch [Implementation Guide], 
2.0.0--Standard for Trial Use, November 26, 2021; IBR approved for 
Sec.  170.215(c).
    (41) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Da Vinci--Coverage Requirements Discovery 
(CRD) Implementation Guide, Version 2.0.1--STU 2, January 8, 2024, IBR 
approved for Sec.  170.215(j).
    (42) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Da Vinci--Documentation Templates and Rules 
(DTR) Implementation Guide, Version 2.0.1--STU 2, January 11, 2024, IBR 
approved for Sec.  170.215(j).
    (43) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Da Vinci Prior Authorization Support (PAS) 
FHIR Implementation Guide, Version 2.0.1--STU 2, December 1, 2023, IBR 
approved for Sec.  170.215(j).
    (44) HL7 FHIR[supreg] CARIN Consumer Directed Payer Data Exchange 
(CARIN IG for Blue Button[supreg]) Implementation Guide, Version 
2.0.0--STU 2 US, November 28, 2022, IBR approved for Sec.  170.215(k).
    (45) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Da Vinci Payer Data Exchange (PDex) 
Implementation Guide, Version 2.1.0--STU 2.1, June 18, 2025, IBR 
approved for Sec.  170.215(k).
    (46) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Da Vinci Payer Data Exchange (PDex) US Drug 
Formulary Implementation Guide, Version 2.0.1--STU 2, December 1, 2023, 
IBR approved for Sec.  170.215(m).
    (47) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Da Vinci Payer Data Exchange (PDex) Plan Net 
Implementation Guide, Version 1.1.0--STU 1.1 US, April 4, 2022, IBR 
approved for Sec.  170.215(n).
    (48) HL7 FHIR[supreg] Subscriptions R5 Backport Implementation 
Guide, Version 1.1.0--Standard for Trial Use, draft as of January 11, 
2023, IBR approved for Sec.  170.215(h).
    (49) HL7 FHIR[supreg] CDS Hooks Implementation Guide, Version 
2.0.1--ci-build, March 12, 2025, IBR approved for Sec.  170.215(f).

[[Page 61030]]

    (f) Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE), 820 Jorie 
Boulevard, Oak Brook, IL Telephone (630) 481-1004, http://www.ihe.net/.
    (1) IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Framework Volume 2b (ITI TF-
2b), Transactions Part B--Sections 3.29--2.43, Revision 7.0, August 10, 
2010, IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(p).
    (2) [Reserved]
    (g) Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Secretariat, c/o 
Association Management Solutions, LLC (AMS), 48377 Fremont Blvd., Suite 
117, Fremont, CA 94538, Telephone (510) 492-4080, http://www.ietf.org/rfc.html.
    (1)-(2) [Reserved]
    (3) Request for Comment (RFC) 5646, ``Tags for Identifying 
Languages, September 2009,'' copyright 2009, IBR approved for Sec.  
170.207(g).
    (h) International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Place des Nations, 
1211 Geneva 20 Switzerland, Telephone (41) 22 730 511, http://www.itu.int/en/pages/default.aspx.
    (1) ITU-T E.123, Series E: Overall Network Operation, Telephone 
Service, Service Operation and Human Factors, International operation--
General provisions concerning users: Notation for national and 
international telephone numbers, email addresses and web addresses, 
February 2001, IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(q).
    (2) ITU-T E.164, Series E: Overall Network Operation, Telephone 
Service, Service Operation and Human Factors, International operation--
Numbering plan of the international telephone service, The 
international public telecommunication numbering plan, November 2010, 
IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(q).
    (i) National Council for Prescription Drug Programs (NCPDP), 
Incorporated, 9240 E Raintree Drive, Scottsdale, AZ 85260-7518; phone 
(480) 477-1000; fax: (480) 767-1042: website: www.ncpdp.org.
    (1) NCPDP SCRIPT Standard, Implementation Guide, Version 2017071, 
ANSI-approved July 28, 2017; IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(b).
    (2) NCPDP SCRIPT Standard, Implementation Guide, Version 2023011, 
ANSI-approved January 17, 2023; IBR approved for Sec.  170.205(b).
    (3) NCPDP Real-Time Prescription Benefit Standard, Implementation 
Guide, Version 13, ANSI-approved May 19, 2022; IBR approved for Sec.  
170.205(c).
    (4) NCPDP Formulary and Benefit Standard, Implementation Guide, 
Version 60, ANSI-approved April 12, 2023; IBR approved for Sec.  
170.205(u).
    (j) Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information 
Technology (ONC), 330 C Street SW, Washington, DC 20201; phone: (202) 
690-7151; website: https://healthit.gov.
    (1) United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI), Version 
3.1 (v3.1), June 2025, IBR approved for Sec.  170.213.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (k) Public Health Data Standards Consortium, 111 South Calvert 
Street, Suite 2700, Baltimore, MD 21202; phone: (801) 532-2299; 
website: www.nahdo.org/sopt.
    (1) Public Health Data Standards Consortium Source of Payment 
Typology Code Set Version 5.0 (October 2011), IBR approved for Sec.  
170.207(s).
    (2) Users Guide for Source of Payment Typology, Version 9.2, 
December 2020; IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(s).
    (l) Regenstrief Institute, Inc., LOINC[supreg] c/o Regenstrief 
Center for Biomedical Informatics, Inc., 410 West 10th Street, Suite 
2000, Indianapolis, IN 46202-3012; phone: (317) 274-9000; website: 
https://loinc.org/ and https://ucum.org/ucum.
    (1) Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC[supreg]) 
Database Version 2.72, February 2022; IBR approved for Sec.  
170.207(c).
    (2) The Unified Code for Units of Measure, Version 2.1, November 
21, 2017; IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(m).
    (m) U.S. National Library of Medicine, 8600 Rockville Pike, 
Bethesda, MD 20894; phone (301) 594-5983; website: www.nlm.nih.gov/.
    (1) SNOMED CT[supreg] [SNOMED Clinical Terms] U.S. Edition, March 
2022 Release; IBR approved for Sec.  170.207(a).
    (2) RxNorm, Full Update Release, July 5, 2022; IBR approved for 
Sec.  170.207(d).
    (3) RxNorm, December 4, 2023, Full Update Release, IBR approved for 
Sec.  170.207(d).
0
11. Amend Sec.  170.315 by:
0
a. Revising and republishing paragraph (a)(5);
0
b. Removing and reserving paragraphs (a)(9), (12), and (14);
0
c. Revising paragraph (b)(1);
0
d. Removing and reserving paragraphs (b)(2) and (7) through (9);
0
e. Removing paragraph (b)(11)(ii)(B);
0
f. Redesignating paragraph (b)(11)(ii)(C) as paragraph (b)(11)(ii)(B);
0
g. Revising paragraph (b)(11)(iii) introductory text and paragraph 
(b)(11)(iii)(B);
0
h. Removing and reserving paragraphs (b)(11)(iv) through (vi);
0
i. Revising paragraph (c)(3);
0
j. Removing and reserving paragraphs (c)(4) and (d);
0
k. Revising and republishing paragraph (e)(1);
0
l. Removing and reserving paragraphs (e)(3) and (f)(4);
0
m. Revising paragraph (f)(5) introductory text;
0
n. Removing and reserving paragraph (f)(5)(ii);
0
o. Revising paragraph (f)(6);
0
p. Removing paragraph (f)(7);
0
q. Removing and reserving paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) and (9); and
0
r. Removing and reserving paragraph (h).
    The revisions and republication read as follows:


Sec.  170.315  ONC certification criteria for Health IT.

* * * * *
    (a) * * *
    (5) Patient demographics. (i) Enable a user to record, change, and 
access patient demographic data including race, ethnicity, preferred 
language, sex, and date of birth.
    (A) Race and ethnicity. (1) Enable each one of a patient's races to 
be recorded in accordance with, at a minimum, the standard specified in 
Sec.  170.207(f)(3) and whether a patient declines to specify race.
    (2) Enable each one of a patient's ethnicities to be recorded in 
accordance with, at a minimum, the standard specified in Sec.  
170.207(f)(3) and whether a patient declines to specify ethnicity.
    (3) Aggregate each one of the patient's races and ethnicities 
recorded in accordance with paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(A)(1) and (2) of this 
section to the categories in the standard specified in Sec.  
170.207(f)(1).
    (B) Preferred language. Enable preferred language to be recorded in 
accordance with the standard specified in Sec.  170.207(g)(2) and 
whether a patient declines to specify a preferred language.
    (C) Sex. Enable sex to be recorded in accordance with the standard 
specified in Sec.  170.207(n)(2).
    (ii) Inpatient setting only. Enable a user to record, change, and 
access the preliminary cause of death and date of death in the event of 
mortality.
* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (1) Transitions of care--receive and validate--(i) Validate C-CDA 
conformance--system performance. Demonstrate the ability to detect 
valid and invalid transition of care/referral summaries received and 
formatted in accordance with the standard specified in Sec.  
170.205(a)(6) for the Continuity of Care Document, Referral Note, and 
(inpatient setting only) Discharge Summary document templates. This 
includes the ability to:
    (A) Parse each of the document types.
    (B) Detect errors in corresponding ``document-templates,'' 
``section-templates,'' and ``entry-templates,'' including invalid 
vocabulary standards and codes not specified in the standard adopted in 
Sec.  170.205(a)(6).

[[Page 61031]]

    (C) Identify valid document-templates and process the data elements 
required in the corresponding section-templates and entry-templates 
from the standard adopted in Sec.  170.205(a)(6).
    (D) Correctly interpret empty sections and null combinations.
    (E) Record errors encountered and allow a user through at least one 
of the following ways to:
    (1) Be notified of the errors produced.
    (2) Review the errors produced.
    (ii) [Reserved]
* * * * *
    (11) * * *
    (iii) Decision support intervention selection. Enable a limited set 
of identified users to select (i.e., activate) electronic decision 
support interventions that are:
* * * * *
    (B) Predictive Decision Support Interventions and use any data in 
paragraph (b)(11)(iii)(A) of this section as well as Clinical Notes and 
Assessment and Plan of Treatment expressed in the standards for this 
data in Sec.  170.213.
* * * * *
    (c) * * *
    (3) Clinical quality measures--report. Enable a user to 
electronically create a data file for transmission of clinical quality 
measurement data in accordance with the applicable implementation 
specifications specified by the CMS implementation guides for Quality 
Reporting Document Architecture (QRDA), category I, for inpatient 
measures in Sec.  170.205(h)(3) and CMS implementation guide for QRDA, 
category III for ambulatory measures in Sec.  170.205(k)(3).
* * * * *
    (e) * * *
    (1) View, download, and transmit to 3rd party--(i) General. 
Patients (and their authorized representatives) must be able to use 
internet-based technology to view, download, and transmit their health 
information to a 3rd party in the manner specified in this paragraph 
(e)(1)(i).
    (A) View. Patients (and their authorized representatives) must be 
able to use health IT to view, at a minimum, the following data:
    (1) [Reserved]
    (2) The data classes expressed in the standards in Sec.  170.213 
(which should be in their English (i.e., non-coded) representation if 
they associate with a vocabulary/code set), and in accordance with 
Sec.  170.205(a)(4) and (6), and paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A)(3)(i) through 
(iii) of this section.
    (3) The following data classes:
    (i) Assessment and plan of treatment. In accordance with the 
``Assessment and Plan Section (V2)'' of the standard specified in Sec.  
170.205(a)(4); or in accordance with the ``Assessment Section (V2)'' 
and ``Plan of Treatment Section (V2)'' of the standard specified in 
Sec.  170.205(a)(4).
    (ii) Goals. In accordance with the ``Goals Section'' of the 
standard specified in Sec.  170.205(a)(4).
    (iii) Health concerns. In accordance with the ``Health Concerns 
Section'' of the standard specified in Sec.  170.205(a)(4).
    (iv) Unique device identifier(s) for a patient's implantable 
device(s). In accordance with the ``Product Instance'' in the 
``Procedure Activity Procedure Section'' of the standards specified in 
Sec.  170.205(a)(4).
    (4) Ambulatory setting only. Provider's name and office contact 
information.
    (5) Inpatient setting only. Admission and discharge dates and 
locations; discharge instructions; and reason(s) for hospitalization.
    (6) Laboratory test report(s). Laboratory test report(s), 
including:
    (i) The information for a test report as specified all the data 
specified in 42 CFR 493.1291(c)(1) through (7);
    (ii) The information related to reference intervals or normal 
values as specified in 42 CFR 493.1291(d); and
    (iii) The information for corrected reports as specified in 42 CFR 
493.1291(k)(2).
    (7) Diagnostic image report(s).
    (B) Download. (1) Patients (and their authorized representatives) 
must be able to use technology to download an ambulatory summary or 
inpatient summary (as applicable to the health IT setting for which 
certification is requested) in the following formats:
    (i) Human readable format; and
    (ii) The format specified in accordance with the standard specified 
in Sec.  170.205(a)(4) and (6) and following the CCD document template.
    (2) When downloaded according to the standard specified in Sec.  
170.205(a)(4) and (6) following the CCD document template, the 
ambulatory summary or inpatient summary must include, at a minimum, the 
following data (which, for the human readable version, should be in 
their English representation if they associate with a vocabulary/code 
set):
    (i) Ambulatory setting only. All of the data specified in paragraph 
(e)(1)(i)(A)(1), (2), (4), and (5) of this section.
    (ii) Inpatient setting only. All of the data specified in 
paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A)(1) and (3) through (5) of this section.
    (3) Inpatient setting only. Patients (and their authorized 
representatives) must be able to download transition of care/referral 
summaries that were created as a result of a transition of care 
(pursuant to the capability expressed in the certification criterion 
specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section).
    (C) Transmit to third party. Patients (and their authorized 
representatives) must be able to:
    (1) Transmit the ambulatory summary or inpatient summary (as 
applicable to the health IT setting for which certification is 
requested) created in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(B)(2) of this section in 
accordance with both of the following ways:
    (i) Email transmission to any email address; and
    (ii) An encrypted method of electronic transmission.
    (2) Inpatient setting only. Transmit transition of care/referral 
summaries (as a result of a transition of care/referral as referenced 
by paragraph (e)(1)(i)(B)(3) of this section) of this section selected 
by the patient (or their authorized representative) in both of the ways 
referenced in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(C)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section).
    (D) Timeframe selection. With respect to the data available to 
view, download, and transmit as referenced paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) 
through (C) of this section, patients (and their authorized 
representatives) must be able to:
    (1) Select data associated with a specific date (to be viewed, 
downloaded, or transmitted); and
    (2) Select data within an identified date range (to be viewed, 
downloaded, or transmitted).
    (ii) Activity history log. (A) When any of the capabilities 
included in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section are 
used, the following information must be recorded and made accessible to 
the patient (or his/her authorized representative):
    (1) The action(s) (i.e., view, download, transmission) that 
occurred;
    (2) The date and time each action occurred;
    (3) The user who took the action; and
    (4) Where applicable, the addressee to whom an ambulatory summary 
or inpatient summary was transmitted.
    (B) [Reserved]
    (iii) Request for restrictions. Patients (and their authorized 
representatives) must be able to use an internet-based method to 
request a restriction to be applied for any data expressed in the 
standards in Sec.  170.213. Conformance with this paragraph is required 
by January 1, 2026.
* * * * *
    (f) * * *
    (5) Transmission to public health agencies--electronic case 
reporting.

[[Page 61032]]

Enable a user to create a case report for electronic transmission 
meeting the requirements described in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this 
section.
* * * * *
    (6) Transmission to public health agencies--antimicrobial use and 
resistance reporting. Create antimicrobial use and resistance reporting 
information for electronic transmission.
* * * * *
0
12. Amend Sec.  170.402 by
0
a. Revising paragraph (b)(2); and
0
b. Removing paragraph (b)(4).
    The revision reads as follows:


Sec.  170.402  Assurances.

* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (2) A health IT developer that must comply with the requirements of 
paragraph (a)(4) of this section must provide all of its customers of 
certified health IT with the health IT certified to the certification 
criterion in Sec.  170.315(b)(10).
* * * * *
0
13. Amend Sec.  170.404 by:
0
a. Revising the introductory text and paragraph (b)(2) introductory 
text;
0
b. Removing paragraphs (b)(3) and (4); and
0
c. Revising the definition for ``Certified API technology'' in 
paragraph (c).
    The revisions read as follows:


Sec.  170.404  Application programming interfaces.

    The following Condition and Maintenance of Certification 
requirements apply to developers of Health IT Modules certified to any 
of the certification criteria adopted in Sec.  170.315(g)(10) and (31) 
through (33) unless otherwise specified in this section.
* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (2) Service base URL publication. For all Health IT Modules 
certified to Sec.  170.315(g)(10), a Certified API Developer must 
publish, at no charge, the service base URLs and related organization 
details that can be used by patients to access their electronic health 
information. This includes all customers regardless of whether the 
Health IT Modules certified to Sec.  170.315(g)(10) are centrally 
managed by the Certified API Developer or locally deployed by an API 
Information Source. These service base URLs and organization details 
must conform to the following:
* * * * *
    (c) * * *
    Certified API Technology means the capabilities of Health IT 
Modules that are certified to any of the API-focused certification 
criteria adopted in Sec.  170.315(g)(10), (31), (32), and (33).
0
14. Amend Sec.  170.405 by:
0
a. Revising paragraph (a);
0
b. Removing and reserving paragraph (b)(1);
0
c. Revising and republishing paragraph (b)(2); and
0
d. Revising paragraph (b)(8) introductory text.
    The revisions and republication read as follows:


Sec.  170.405  Real world testing.

    (a) Condition of Certification requirement. A health IT developer 
with one or more Health IT Module(s) certified to any one or more of 
the Certification Criteria for Health IT in Sec.  170.315(b), (c), (e), 
(f), (g), and (j) must, on an annual basis, successfully test the real 
world use of those Health IT Module(s) for interoperability (as defined 
in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(9) and Sec.  170.102) in the type of setting in 
which such Health IT Module(s) would be/is marketed.
    (b) * * *
    (2) Real world testing results reporting. (i) If in the course of 
conducting real world testing the developer discovers one or more non-
conformities with the full scope of any certification criterion under 
the Program, the developer must report that non-conformity to the ONC-
ACB within 30 days.
    (ii) For real world testing activities conducted during the 
immediately preceding calendar year, a health IT developer must submit 
to its ONC-ACB an annual real world testing results report that:
    (A) Addresses each of its certified Health IT Modules that were 
certified to, including through Inherited Certified Status, the Sec.  
170.315(g) certification criteria referenced in paragraph (a) in the 
year preceding the real world testing calendar year reporting period.
    (B) Includes the newer versions of certified Health IT Modules that 
include the Sec.  170.315(g) certification criteria referenced in 
paragraph (a) of this section that were updated using Inherited 
Certified Status during the real world testing reporting period; and
    (C) Is submitted by a date determined by the ONC-ACB that enables 
the ONC-ACB to publish a publicly available hyperlink to the results 
report on the CHPL no later than March 15 of each calendar year, 
beginning in 2023.
    (iii) The real world testing results must report the following for 
each of the Sec.  170.315(g) certification criteria identified in 
paragraph (a) of this section that are included in the Health IT 
Module's scope of certification:
    (A) The method(s) that was used to demonstrate real world 
interoperability;
    (B) The care setting(s) that was tested for real world 
interoperability;
    (C) The voluntary updates to standards and implementation 
specifications that the National Coordinator has approved through the 
Standards Version Advancement Process;
    (D) A list of the key milestones met during real world testing;
    (E) The outcomes of real world testing including a description of 
any challenges encountered during real world testing; and
    (F) At least one measurement/metric associated with the real world 
testing.
    (iv) For each Health IT Module certified to any certification 
criterion specified in paragraph (a) of this section, other than the 
Sec.  170.315(g) certification criteria (see paragraph (b)(2)(iii) for 
requirements), identify the voluntary updates to standards and 
implementation specifications that the National Coordinator has 
approved through the Standards Version Advancement Process.
* * * * *
    (8) Standards Version Advancement Process--voluntary updates of 
certified health IT to newer versions of standards and implementation 
specifications. A health IT developer of certified health IT subject to 
paragraph (a) of this section is permitted to update Health IT 
Module(s) certified to any one or more of the certification criteria 
referenced in paragraph (a) of this section to a newer version of any 
adopted standard or implementation specification included in the 
criterion, provided that newer version is approved by the National 
Coordinator for use in certifications issued under the ONC Health IT 
Certification Program. A developer that pursues such updates to its 
certified Health IT Module(s) must:
* * * * *
0
15. Amend Sec.  170.406 by revising paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) to read 
as follows:


Sec.  170.406  Attestations.

    (a) * * *
    (4) Section 170.404 if the health IT developer has a Health IT 
Module(s) certified to any of the certification criteria adopted in 
Sec.  170.315(g); and such health IT developer must also ensure that 
health IT allows for health information to be exchanged, accessed, and 
used, in the manner described in Sec.  170.404; and
    (5) Section 170.405 if a health IT developer has a Health IT 
Module(s) certified to any one or more ONC

[[Page 61033]]

Certification Criteria for Health IT set forth in Sec.  170.405(a).
* * * * *
0
16. Amend Sec.  170.407 by:
0
a. Revising the section heading and paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) 
and (a)(3); and
0
b. Revising and republishing paragraph (b).
    The revisions and republication read as follows:


Sec.  170.407  Insights.

    (a) * * *
    (1) * * *
    (ii) * * *
    (B) Have health IT certified to the certification criteria 
specified in each measure in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
    (C) Have any users using the certified health IT specified in each 
measure in paragraphs (a)(3) of this section during the reporting 
period.
* * * * *
    (3) Measures--(i) Use of FHIR in apps through certified health IT. 
If a health IT developer has a Health IT Module certified to Sec.  
170.315(g)(10), then the health IT developer must submit responses on 
the number of requests made to distinct certified health IT deployments 
that returned FHIR resources, number of distinct certified health IT 
deployments active at any time, the number of distinct deployments 
active at any time that returned FHIR resources in response to API 
calls from apps connected to certified health IT, including stratifying 
responses by the following:
    (A) User type;
    (B) FHIR resource; and
    (C) US Core Implementation Guide version.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Maintenance of Certification. (1) A health IT developer must 
provide responses to the Insights Condition of Certification specified 
in paragraph (a) of this section annually for any Health IT Module that 
has or has had an active certification as of January 1 for each 
reporting period under the ONC Health IT Certification Program:
    (i) A health IT developer must provide responses for measures 
specified in:
    (A) Paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section beginning July 
2027.
    (B) Paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(C) of this section beginning July 2028.
    (2) [Reserved]
0
17. Amend Sec.  170.523 by:
0
a. Revising paragraph (f)(1)(viii);
0
b. Removing and reserving paragraphs (f)(1)(ix) through (xi), (xix), 
and (xxi) and (p)(1); and
0
c. Revising paragraph (p)(3).
    The revisions read as follows.


Sec.  170.523  Principles of proper conduct for ONC-ACBs.

* * * * *
    (f) * * *
    (1) * * *
    (viii) The certification criterion or criteria to which the Health 
IT Module has been certified, including the test procedure and test 
tool version used;
* * * * *
    (p) * * *
    (3) Submit real world testing results by March 15 of each calendar 
year to ONC for public availability.
* * * * *
0
18. Amend Sec.  170.550 by:
0
a. Revising paragraph (e);
0
b. Revising and republishing paragraph (g); and
0
c. Removing and reserving paragraphs (h) and (j).
    The revisions and republication read as follows:


Sec.  170.550  Health IT Module certification.

* * * * *
    (e) Standards updates. ONC-ACBs must provide an option for 
certification of Health IT Modules consistent with Sec.  170.405(b)(7) 
or (8) to any one or more of the criteria referenced in Sec.  
170.405(a) based on newer versions of standards included in the 
criteria which have been approved by the National Coordinator for use 
in certification.
* * * * *
    (g) Health IT Module dependent criteria. When certifying a Health 
IT Module to the ONC Certification Criteria for Health IT, an ONC-ACB 
must certify the Health IT Module in accordance with the certification 
criteria at:
    (1) Section 170.315(b)(10) when a health IT developer presents a 
Health IT Module for certification that can store electronic health 
information at the time of certification by the product, of which the 
Health IT Module is a part.
    (2) Section 170.315(b)(4) if the Health IT Module is presented for 
certification to the certification criteria in Sec.  170.315(b)(3).
* * * * *
0
19. Amend Sec.  170.555 by revising and republishing paragraph (b)(2) 
to read as follows:


Sec.  170.555  Certification to newer versions of certain standards.

* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (2) A certified Health IT Module may be upgraded to comply with 
newer versions of standards identified as minimum standards in subpart 
B of this part without adversely affecting its certification status, 
unless the Secretary prohibits the use of a newer version for 
certification.
0
20. Amend Sec.  170.570 by revising the section heading to read as 
follows:


Sec.  170.570  Effect of revocation on the certifications issued to 
Health IT Module(s).

* * * * *

PART 171--INFORMATION BLOCKING

0
21. The authority citation for part 171 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 42 U.S.C. 300jj-52; 5 U.S.C. 552.

0
22. Amend Sec.  171.102 by:
0
a. Revising definitions of ``Access'' and ``Use'';
0
b. Adding, in alphabetical order, the definitions of ``Contract of 
adhesion'', ``Market rate'', and ``Unconscionable terms''.
    The revisions and additions read as follows:


Sec.  171.102  Definitions.

* * * * *
    Access means the ability or means necessary to make electronic 
health information available for exchange or use, including, without 
limitation, by automation technologies (e.g., robotic process 
automation, agentic artificial intelligence).
* * * * *
    Contract of adhesion means a contract provided on a standardized 
form, or on a ``take it or leave it basis'' without a realistic 
opportunity to bargain where the desired product, services, access, 
use, or exchange cannot be provided except by acquiescing to the form 
contract.
* * * * *
    Market rate means the value in an arm's-length transaction, 
consistent with the general market value of the subject transaction.
* * * * *
    Unconscionable terms means contractual terms that are excessive, 
unreasonable, or shockingly unfair or unjust.
* * * * *
    Use means the ability for electronic health information, once 
accessed or exchanged through automation technologies or otherwise, to 
be understood and acted upon, including, without limitation, by 
automation technologies (e.g., robotic process automation, autonomous 
artificial intelligence systems).
0
23. Amend Sec.  171.204 by:
0
a. Removing and reserving paragraph (a)(3);
0
b. Revising and republishing paragraphs (a)(4)(ii) and (iii); and

[[Page 61034]]

0
c. Removing and reserving paragraph (a)(4)(iv).
    The revisions and republication read as follows:


Sec.  171.204  Infeasibility exception--When will an actor's practice 
of not fulfilling a request to access, exchange, or use electronic 
health information due to the infeasibility of the request not be 
considered information blocking?

* * * * *
    (a) * * *
    (4) * * *
    (ii) The actor offered all alternative manners that are set forth 
in Sec.  171.301(b) in accordance with Sec.  171.301(b), regardless of 
whether the requestor specified the manner or agreed to it.
    (iii) The actor does not provide analogous access, exchange, or use 
of the requested electronic health information to any other individual 
or entity.
* * * * *
0
24. Amend Sec.  171.301 by:
0
a. Removing the word ``and'' at the end of paragraph (a)(2)(i);
0
b. Removing the period at the end of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) and adding 
``; and'' in its place; and
0
c. Adding paragraph (a)(2)(iii).
    The addition reads as follows:


Sec.  171.301  Manner exception--When will an actor's practice of 
limiting the manner in which it fulfills a request to access, exchange, 
or use electronic health information not be considered information 
blocking?

* * * * *
    (a) * * *
    (2) * * *
    (iii) Any contract or agreement under which the actor and requestor 
agree to fulfill a request for access, exchange, or use of EHI, and any 
license from the actor of interoperability elements used in fulfilling 
the request in the manner requested:
    (A) must be at market rate,
    (B) must not be a contract of adhesion, and
    (C) must not contain unconscionable terms.
* * * * *

Subpart D [Removed and Reserved]

0
25. Remove and reserve subpart D, consisting of Sec. Sec.  171.400 
through 171.403.

Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.,
Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services.
[FR Doc. 2025-23896 Filed 12-22-25; 4:15 pm]
BILLING CODE 4150-45-P

