June 16, 2025
Dr. Mehmet Oz, MD
Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Submitted electronically via https://www.regulations.gov
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
Dear Administrator Oz,
Blue Shield of California (Blue Shield) appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Health Technology Ecosystem Request for Information
(RFI). Blue Shield is a nonprofit health plan offering health benefits coverage to individuals and
groups throughout the State of California. Our mission is to ensure that all Californians have
access to high-quality care at an affordable price.
We applaud the Administration’s commitment to improving access to health care data and digital
health tools to help patients and families make informed healthcare decisions, reduce the burden
on clinicians and other providers, and lessen costs for businesses and taxpayers. As CMS and the
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordinator (ASTP/ONC)
contemplate their digital health priorities, we encourage your consideration of policies that
accelerate the seamless, secure, and real-time exchange of electronic health information across
the health care system and enable all Americans to access a longitudinal, real-time digital health
record.
Like CMS, Blue Shield is committed to bringing health care into the digital age and breaking
down barriers to the secure and timely exchange of health information. We are active
participants in California’s Data Exchange Framework (DxF), California’s statewide data
sharing agreement, which charts new territory by requiring health plans, hospitals, and clinicians
(among other providers) to exchange or provide access to electronic health information in real
time. The DxF was enacted in 2021 as part of AB 133, state legislation that Blue Shield
endorsed. In addition, Blue Shield has made significant investments in California’s health
information exchange infrastructure and shares claims data with providers via Manifest MedEx,
the state’s largest non-profit health information network. Blue Shield also participates in regional
health information networks, like San Diego Health Connect and the Los Angeles Network for
Enhanced Services, and connects with providers via Epic’s Payer Platform.
Blue Shield has taken meaningful steps to improve our members’ visibility into their health
through the launch of our Member Health Record tool. Our goal is for the Member Health

Record to serve as the single source of truth for our members’ medical history – bringing clinical
data from multiple providers together with pharmacy and claims information into one
longitudinal digital health record that is free to members. However, even with multiple avenues
to participate in data exchange and a state mandate to reinforce data sharing, our ability to access
member data in real time remains a challenge.
To address the challenges of unlocking the data created by our health care system, we
recommend that CMS and ASTP/ONC:
• Require health care organizations to participate in real-time data sharing;
• Enforce statutory prohibitions on information blocking and implement additional
compliance mechanisms to improve data sharing; and
• When data is shared, hold health plans accountable for establishing longitudinal, real-
time digital health records for their members.
We have been advocating for several of these recommendations in Congress as part of a draft
bill, Comprehensive Digital Health Records for All Americans Act, which is attached for your
reference.
Our detailed comments follow.
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information in
one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)?
Despite the enactment of the 21st Century Cures Act (Pub. Law 114-255), our health care system
still relies on antiquated faxes, photocopies, and CD-ROMs to share data. Patient health
information remains trapped in disparate clinical and administrative systems and networks.
While patients have a legal right to access their information under the HIPAA Privacy Rule,
there is no guarantee that their information is integrated into a comprehensive, longitudinal
digital health record. Even using patient-facing Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) –
which offer an advanced technological approach to accessing data – patients are still required to
recall the facilities and clinician practices that may have their medical information.
As noted in the RFI, “although the building blocks for a patient-centric digital health ecosystem
are in place, the experience of most patients, caregivers, and providers is neither seamless nor
simple. To get access to their data, patients have to track which providers they have seen and set
up separate accounts and credentials with each portal.” This is the shared reality of far too many
Americans in our health care system.
We recommend CMS prioritize adoption of digital tools or applications that enable patients
access to the full picture of their health history as part of an integrated, comprehensive, and up-
to-date digital health record. Specifically, we encourage CMS to effectuate regulations that (1)
establish that patients have the right to access their own comprehensive, digital health record that
is updated in real time or not later than 24 hours after new health information is available; and
(2) make health plans accountable for compiling and providing their members electronic access
2

to clinical, claims, and other electronic health information in an integrated, user-friendly digital
health record.
Taking these steps would help address several inefficiencies and patient harms resulting from
piecemeal and outdated information and, importantly, alleviate the burden that our current
system puts on patients to hunt for their information from disparate record systems, portals, or
apps. It would empower patients with access to their own information and improve their care
experience.
As noted earlier, Blue Shield has taken meaningful steps to improve our members’ visibility into
the big picture of their health and alleviate the burden of navigating multiple physician and
hospital portals by launching our Member Health Record. This platform is available on our Blue
Shield member app and website and serves as a single source of truth for our members’ medical
history – bringing data from multiple providers all in one place. Members across Blue Shield
insurance products can electronically access health records available to Blue Shield (including
lab results, immunizations, and pharmacy information), historical health data shared with Blue
Shield, and claims information. Importantly, the Member Health Record can be emailed, printed,
and shared with an individual’s care team and their loved ones. We believe this experience
should be available to all Americans.
PC-2. c. What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones' complete health
information electronically and using it for managing health conditions or finding the best
care (for example, limitations in functionality, user friendliness, or access to basic
technology infrastructure)?
As noted above, one obstacle to patients accessing complete health information electronically is
the lack of ownership in our health care system for curating and updating comprehensive,
longitudinal digital health records in a manner that is “without special effort” on the part of
patients. Current solutions do not meet this standard.
We recommend CMS require health plans to compile and make accessible comprehensive digital
health records that integrate clinical, claims, and other available electronic health information,
are updated in real time when new electronic health information is accessible to the health plan,
and are available to plan members through a secure, web-based application, portal, or other
platforms. Health plans have visibility into where their members access care and can assemble
medical records from members’ treating providers (as permitted under existing state and federal
rules). In addition, when the Payer-to-Payer API is effective in 2027, health plans will be able to
fill gaps in members’ claims history by requesting – when authorized – historical claims data
from their members’ former health plans. Therefore, we believe health plans are well positioned
to create, maintain, and make available comprehensive digital health records for their members.
Another obstacle to accessing complete health information electronically is the lack of will or
cooperation within the health care industry – often by entities seeking a financial or competitive
advantage – that inhibits timely and seamless data sharing. Additionally, mixed signals in what
is currently required or allowed for sharing data among payers, clinicians, hospitals and other
3

health care entities results in inefficiencies and friction across the health care system, impedes
the delivery of high-quality care, and inhibits patient access to their comprehensive digital health
record.
With this in mind, we urge CMS to set clear expectations that data exchange is a shared
responsibility across all stakeholders. Specifically, we recommend CMS issue regulations that
require key health care organizations – hospitals, physician practices and medical groups, health
plans, skilled nursing facilities, and clinical laboratories – to provide access to or exchange all
electronic health information in real time or not more than 24 hours after the information is
available for all required and permitted uses and disclosures under HIPAA.
Establishing consistent data sharing requirements across key health care organizations would
make it easier for patients, providers, health plans, and other health care organizations to access
and use electronic health information. It would also address the barriers health plans currently
face in accessing members’ clinical data for important healthcare operations use cases, including
creating, maintaining, and making available comprehensive digital health records for their
members. Ultimately, health data should be treated as a common good and participating in data
exchange should be table stakes in our health care system.
TD-18. Information blocking: a. Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for
the types of practices you have experienced that may constitute information blocking.
Please include both situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a
failure or unusable response.
As a health plan, we recently initiated – through our health information network, Manifest
MedEx – a Healthcare Operations query to a Los Angeles-based hospital for three individuals
who received care at the hospital and had claims adjudicated by Blue Shield. In all three cases,
the hospital responded, “No patient found.” The stated reason for the hospital rejecting the
Healthcare Operations query was that their Epic system’s feed to Carequality is not configured to
respond to Healthcare Operations queries.
While we are working in good faith with this hospital provider, Epic, and Manifest MedEx to
resolve this issue, it is an example of challenges we have faced accessing data via queries with a
Healthcare Operations purpose code. We often run into resistance, misunderstanding, or
technical barriers that impede our ability to access member data in a manner permitted under
state and federal law. Moreover, because Healthcare Operations is subject to the minimum
necessary standard under HIPAA, responding entities have discretion over the degree of data
disclosed in response to Healthcare Operations queries. This subjectivity creates confusion,
inconsistency, and friction in our health care system.
We encourage CMS and ASTP/ONC to work with health information networks, like the Trusted
Exchange Framework and Common Agreement, to establish standard operating procedures and
policies that (1) require responses to Healthcare Operations queries without permitting
respondents to tack on additional response fees; and (2) detail a reasonable, standardized
approach to the minimum necessary standard.
4

TD-18. Information blocking: b. What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS
implement to further discourage healthcare providers from engaging in information
blocking practices?
Blue Shield strongly supports the Administration’s efforts to discourage information blocking
and believes the mechanisms for enforcing the prohibition on information blocking must be
meaningful and comparable across all stakeholders. Robust enforcement mechanisms are needed
to reinforce ASTP/ONC’s information blocking rules and ensure the free flow of electronic
health information. We urge ASTP/ONC to work with the HHS Office of Inspector General to
fully implement and enforce the statutory prohibition on information blocking, and publicly
detail the actions being taken to address valid claims of information blocking.
We are encouraged that CMS and ASTP/ONC view their existing authorities as a starting point
and not the end of the discussion on disincentives for engaging in information blocking. On that
note, we recommend CMS consider alternative compliance mechanisms, such as requiring
hospitals, larger medical groups (with 25 or more physicians), health plans, and developers of
certified health information technology to publicly report on and attest to a standardized set of
compliance metrics developed by CMS and ASTP/ONC. The survey could include questions on
the implementation status of existing mandates (e.g., adoption of APIs), number of external
queries received and responded to by HIPPA Purpose of Use, number of outbound queries sent
by HIPPA Purpose of Use, standards they use, and metrics of data completeness and quality.
Public reporting of this type of information would improve transparency into how organizations
are engaging in data sharing and make it easier to identify which organizations are lagging or
potentially engaging in information blocking practices.
PC-5. b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider
generated data on patients?
We strongly encourage CMS to revisit and strengthen its Admission, Discharge, and
Transmission (ADT) patient event notification condition of participation (CoP) for hospitals.
ADT event notifications are a key source of information that support coordination of care and
patient outreach by primary care and community providers as well as health plans. Hospitals
have had over four years of experience complying with CMS’ CoP and it is time to build on the
existing requirement to improve the utility of ADT notifications.
We recommend CMS issue regulations proposing the following enhancements to ADT event
notifications:
5

• Expand the minimum information in the ADT event notification CoP to include fields for
the following data elements:
o National Provider Identifiers for the (1) Sending Facility, (2) Attending Doctor (if
available), (3) Referring Doctor (if available), and (4) Discharged Location;
o Discharge Disposition;
o Admit Reason; and
o ICD-10 Codes for (1) Diagnosis; (2) Diagnosis Description; and (3) Diagnosis
Type.
• We also recommend CMS expand ADT event notifications to apply to patients who
present in emergency rooms and are subsequently discharged without being admitted, as
well as patients who are admitted by hospitals in observational status.
These enhancements would greatly improve the usability of ADT event notifications, providing
critical information to primary care providers and health plans to support timely follow up with
the patient after a hospital visit and coordinate after care. We believe these changes would
improve care transitions, reduce waste, improve patient outcomes, and would not be a significant
additional burden on hospitals.
PC-5. a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health
products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not
approving in the sense of a coverage determination)?
We encourage CMS to establish a centralized mechanism – in partnership with the Federal Trade
Commission – to validate and designate “trusted” digital health products based on their adoption
and use of industry-endorsed privacy and security standards, and for having consumer disclosure
policies that provide transparency into how such products use personal health information for
secondary purposes. We encourage any vetting process to evaluate applications based on their
privacy and security practices, consumer education and marketing tools, the adequacy of their
consent policies, the transparency of their terms and conditions, and the type of secondary uses
they intend to carry out using personal health information. A “CMS-approved” marketplace for
digital health products would provide a centralized, user-friendly place for consumers to select
reliable, trusted digital tools for managing their health needs.
We also believe CMS has an opportunity to increase efficiency and uptake of the Patient Access
API by establishing a centralized portal for API registration that could be used by CMS-vetted
apps to automatically register with all health plan Patient Access APIs. This would reduce the
need for point-to-point registrations between apps and health plans, reducing administrative
burden and costs.
6

Without a federally supported vetting process, we are concerned about the potential for misuse
and/or inappropriate disclosure of enrollees’ personal health information by third-party apps and
developers, which fall outside the reach of HIPAA. Lengthy terms and conditions written in
legalese can leave consumers confused or unaware that they have authorized an application to
use or sell their personal health information for secondary purposes. We believe that all entities,
whether or not they are covered by HIPAA, must bear responsibility for protecting personal
health information, clearly conveying to individuals how their health information will be used,
and obtaining individuals’ consent for secondary uses and disclosures of their health information.
Conclusion
We appreciate your continued work and attention to modernizing care delivery, improving
access, and supporting innovation in our health care system. Thank you again for the opportunity
to provide comments on the Request for Information. We would welcome the opportunity to
respond to any follow-up questions you may have.
Sincerely,
Andy Chasin
Vice President, Federal Policy and Advocacy
Blue Shield of California
7