 AUTHOR’S NOTES: 1. This white paper (FILE CODE: CMS-0042-NC ) addr esses RFI: “Health Technology Ecosystem ” issued 16 May 2025 by the Centers for Medicar e & Medicaid Services, Assistant Secr etary for Technology Policy/Oﬃce of the National Coor dinat or for Health Information Technology , Dept. of Health & Human Services. Speciﬁcally , we addr ess items PC-8, PC-10, PC-1 1, PC-12, PC-13, PR-12, PR-13, and PR-14. 2. In this response, we may alternately refer to ambulance-based practices as “Mobile Medicine, ” “EMS, ” “Emer gency Medical Services, ” and “medical transpor tation ” (and variants thereof). We intend to include all variations of Mobile Medical services, including, but not limited to, ﬁre services, public and private ambulance services, emer gency and non-emer gency medical transpor t services, critical care transpor t (both gr ound and air), and community par amedicine / mobile integr ated health. 3. Portions of this RFI response have been previously published by Jonathon Feit (the author) in the Journal of Emer gency Medical Services ( online at www .jems.com ) and Beck er’s Hospital Re view ( http:/ /www .beck ershospitalr eview .com ). 
 PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? On Januar y 22, 2025, the  Los Angeles Times  published “ Many residents with disabilities can’t ﬂee ﬁres on their own. Could a database help? ” The repor ter, Rachel Ellis, cited Los Angeles County Fire Chief Anthony Marr one as saying, during a meeting of the Boar d of Super visors, that “the ongoing wildﬁr es underscor ed the need for a ‘database to track people who have mobility challenges or health challenges [because] tr ying t o do it during an emer gency is v ery, very diﬃcult. ”  My father , Harold, is a diabetic transplant patient living in Los Angeles.  His medications mak e him unable to drive, so my mother—an angel who previously cared for all four of my grandpar ents  while  co-running the family business  and  raising my sisters and me—tak es the wheel, literally.  During the 2025 Palisade Fire, I ﬂew down from the Bay Area to evacuate them, and for the ﬁrst time, Mom seemed to realiz e that if anything happened to  her , we could lose them both. Why? She knows Dad’ s meds.  If she were hurt by a ﬁre, a car crash, or a medical crisis, Chief Marr one’s warning could prove true. Many families have a Brenda who safeguar ds details about who needs what special care.  Of course, many other families are not so fortunate: for them, a database to ﬁll in the knowledge gaps would be enormously helpful. The trouble comes from the fact that both the City and County of Los Angeles have several health information exchanges, including a nativ e data sharing resour ce called the Los Angeles Network for Enhanced Services (LANES), which is funded in part by L.A. Care Health Plan, the county ’s largest health plan—which includes Medicaid plans used by many elderly and disabled patients, and those patients dispr opor tionately r ely on emer gency ser vices e veryday (not just during disasters). In addition, both the city and county are crisscr ossed by Manif est Medex, California ’s largest health information organization; a feder ally recogniz ed network connecting hospitals that use the Epic electr onic health recor d system (Epic QHIN); and still another separ ate network that links Veterans Administr ation hospitals (Oracle Health). These leverage both the feder al Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) and the California Data Exchange Framework (“DXF”), the Golden State ’s TEFCA analogue that was set in motion by 2021 by AB133 and in the process of (hopefully) being bolster ed via SB660, to include additional governance and participation mandates for non-facility-based care providers. If those are not enough, accor ding to Nichole Aston, Branch Chief in the California Oﬃce of Traﬃc Safety (OTS), a separ ate “health data exchange ” project is under way in Los Angeles County , using separ ate funds provided b y OTS . Following the Palisade and Eaton ﬁres, a ﬁeld deputy in Super visor Lindse y Horvath’s oﬃce explained that on April 1, 2025, the Los Angeles County Boar d of Super visors followed the Chief ’s statement by advancing a "motion, author ed by [two Super visors, that] calls for a repor t back from the County ’s Aging and Disabilities Depar tment on how a registr y could be implemented at the County level. Their repor t back is due in August. ” The motion is called, “ Reviewing Best Practices 
 and Exploring the Creation of a Compr ehensiv e Emer gency Registr y System for Older Adults and Persons with Disabilities in Los Angeles County .” The Boar d of Super visors’ willingness to snap to achie ve Chief Marr one’s goal of a database of elderly and disabled patients is impr essiv e—but ultimately misguided. They say “the road to hell is paved with good intentions”: As an emer gency medical services health data inter oper ability exper t, I am concerned that this admir able goal could inadv ertently  raise  the risk faced by patients like my father . Why? Because medicine wants patients to live a comfor table and activ e life. We want families from L.A. to be able to see the state and the world, conﬁdent that their health data can go with them and be accessed if the worst happens.   Given the glut of existing infrastructur e, the trouble with L.A. County 's appr oach is not the  idea  of creating a database of people who need extra help.  It's that those technical systems already   exist! The California DxF functions as a technical backbone for statewide inter oper ability , much like the SHIN-N Y in New York and THSA in Texas (but it is distinct from true statewide HIEs such as MIHIN in Michigan, because the “pipes” are common and connected, but the individuals HIOs/HIEs provide local and/or differentiated services. Why does neither the L.A. City nor County Fire Depar tment use the tools that are already available to them, despite obvious utility?  Why build something new and potentially disconnected? The Chief 's wishful statement suggests that he is unfamiliar about the investments that were already made and the data that were already captur ed (and are shar able). Yet to date, a dozen Mobile Medical services have signed up to, or are already inter oper ating with, the California D XF, suggesting that the issue is less one of technology than of awar eness of applicability . Moreover, both Los Angeles County Fire and the City of Los Angeles Fire Depar tment have been invited to participate in the California DXF, but have not elected to do so as of this writing. Participation in the California DXF which would affor d the agencies and their hospital partners discr ete data inter oper ability (for impr oved care and oper ations, potentially including an elimination of paper handoffs at the emer gency depar tment, and reduced ambulance oﬄoad times); as well as and visibility into all manner of medical complexities, from disabilities that are electricity dependent, to rare conditions such as hemophilia that (if known) can alter emer gency response, to the presence of end-of-lif e medical orders (e.g., POLST forms). AB133 established not only the legal basis for the California DXF, but also for an inter oper able POLST registr y that can be used by both hospital and emer gency ser vice personnel in the ﬁeld. Deplo yed in 2024, the California DXF weaves together dispar ate health sharing networks so hospitals, clinics, ambulance and ﬁre services, doct ors’ oﬃces, nursing homes, and myriad other care providers could secur ely inter oper ate when they are needed while trusting the quality of the information. It capst ones over a decade of work, with four thousand-plus care providers signing a statewide Data Sharing Agreement (DSA) managed by the Center for Data Insights & Inno vation in the California Depar tment of Health & Human Services. Its signers include organizations that don’t mak e clinical data sharing choices lightly , such as hospitals like Kaiser Permanente, Cedars-Sinai, Providence, Adv entist, CommonSpirit, USC, and UCL A. I work ed inside L.A. County Fire during the COVID-19 public health emer gency , helping to keep its personnel safe.  I saw their technical capabilities and gaps, their resiliency , and their dedication to saving lives and proper ty, lifting those who have fallen and keeping people ’s pain at bay.  My family is 
 part of the L.A. community (technically under the protection of the Los Angeles City Fire Depar tment, not County Fire). But both ﬁre depar tments use the same patient recor d softwar e to document what was done t o and for patients. Both would similarly beneﬁt fr om access t o patients’ health context. Ther efore, the county 's instinct to build a separ ate, standalone — and potentially noninter oper able — local registr y of patients with complex care needs could prove itself disastr ous if Responders arriv e to help someone that needs extra assistance, yet they lack the most recent data because it’s sitting in that system over there .  Likewise if patients travel beyond the county border so their data become inaccessible to Responders in the ﬁeld. (The  New York Times  has covered this quandar y in depth, in articles titled “ Filing Suit for Wrongful Life ” and “ Paramedics Shar e One Tip that May Save Your Life .”) Chief Marr one is right that softwar e can ﬂag people who need special help, whether because their lives depend on electrical equipment like ventilat ors or chair lifts; or because they have physical, mental or beha vioral disabilities and cannot escape on their own (like the father and son that Ms. Ellis r epor ted in her ar ticle, who tr agically died together in the Eat on Fir e).   Howe ver, the key to acceler ating health access and health equity is having the state ’s largest municipalities elect to participate in the existing DXF—during disasters and beyond.  Doing so would also achie ve a long-sought ideological goal that is fast gaining nationwide momentum: inviting Mobile Medical professionals to the table so they can access data they need, which they have requested, and to which the government says they are entitled.  The DXF gives emer gency service agencies a path to be informed about patients’ context, needs, and wishes while care is being provided—then to shar e what they saw and did fast enough for the details to be used by the next link in the care chain. Instead of considering something new that risks being disconnected  from the rest of California ’s healthcar e ecosystem, L.A. County should build upon the DXF to avoid residents’ data stopping at the county line, and visit ors’ critical health data “ going dark” t o the cr ews in the ﬁeld. 
 PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement ( TEFCA ) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world? Emer gency Medical Services and Medical Transpor tation data are based on the National EMS Information System, or NEMSIS, data standar d, but NEMSIS is not governed by the U.S. Depar tment of Health & Human Services. Rather , it is funded by the National Highwa y Traﬃc Safety Administr ation (NHTSA), within the feder al Depar tment of Transpor tation (DOT). Even insiders to the healthcar e system are unawar e of how EMS works in America—for example, did you know that ambulance services are paid by the mile?—and this disjoint is expensiv e in terms of dollars and lives. The tr end is e volving, as I describe below , but it has r eal public health implications. The distinction between HHS and DOT funding may seem nitpicky , but it is nuanced and critical. For many years, inter oper ability among Mobile Medical services and the electr onic patient care recor d (ePCR) systems they use; EHRs used by hospitals; and HIEs was prevented by a combination of misunderstandings and business decisions–this is essential: the technology to shar e data among ePCRs, EHRs, and HIEs has been deplo yed in California since 2015–that have only recently been remedied thanks t o a combination inno vative steps tak en b y HIEs, and b y rulings fr om ONC/ASTP . In 2014, the California Health Care Foundation awar ded a programmatic grant to my company (Beyond Lucid Technologies (“BLT”)) to help us build a “translation engine ” that conv erts NEMSIS data to HL7 CCDs so as to ensur e that they are consumable by receiving care facilities, discr ete and ideally in real-time. This grant was in service of a program in Alameda County , California, that was focused on reducing recidivism for patients with chronic care, and mental / beha vioral health needs. Because the patients associated with such programs often have health challenges covered not by HIPAA per se, but by 42 CFR Part 2 (including mental health challenges and substance use issues), inter oper ability has long plagued Mobile Medical providers because those data were inter twined. The disjoint was fundamentally corr ected b y the issuance of ASTP’ s Final Rule on F ebruar y 8, 2024 . In 2017, BLT detached our “prehospital pipe ” from the underlying ePCR system and began collabor ating with other Mobile Medical documentation companies–e ven those with whom we compete in the mark et with respect to other product lines–t o facilitate vendor-agnostic data sharing across whole states. BLT currently is the principal entry point for discr ete, EHR-consumable real-time data gener ated from NEMSIS to EHRs and HIEs in several states and even nationally thanks t o our work with one of the ﬁrst QHINs. ● Michigan ( Michigan Health Information Network (“MIHIN”)); ● Color ado (both CORHIO and the Quality Health Network (“QHN”); ● New Y ork ( Bronx RHIO , with HealtheConnections in pr ocess and HI XNY on deck) 
 ● Massachusetts (Mass HIW ay; MEDI TECH via Dir ect for a lar ge hospital-based EMS agency) ● California ( Manif est Medex , Serving Communities HIE , and Sac V alley Med Shar e in pr ocess) ● Minnesota & Nor th Dakota (CommonSpirit Health via the Nor th Dakota Health Info. Network) ● Two QHINs ( MedAllies and Health Gorilla), ● Texas (two HIE integr ations appr oved and in-pr ocess). ○ During CO VID-19, BL T connected Fir e ser vices t o the T exas Immunization Registr y. ● Oregon (Reliance HIE, and the Or egon POLST Registr y, including PCC’ s statewide EDIE). ○ In 2020, the focus on inter oper ability during COVID-19 expanded to include end of life medical orders. BLT powers the Oregon POLST Registr y, which is used by 2000+ clinicians across Oregon and more than seventy (70) Fire & EMS agencies,, including data sharing with PointClickCar e’s Emer gency Depar tment Information Exchange (EDIE), and EHRs like Epic. The need for inter oper ability and real-time access to POLST forms, no matter wher e the patient is, is a function of their design: They literally pertain to life and death, and as such, have no margin for error. Real-time access to POLST forms is an increasingly common goal due in part to the so-called Silver Tsunami of aging individuals who want to live independently for as long as they can, even after a serious diagnosis (precision medicine and gene therapies are increasing the odds of surviving the illness, achie ving remission, and even emer ging from hospice). Patients want their wishes to be followed no matter wher e a healthcar e crisis occurs. This movement was bolster ed by AB133 (2021), which established the legal fr amework for a POLST r egistr y in California. In the examples above, inter oper ability is achie ved using feder al standar ds–such as CCDs–and focuses on getting data into the HIE for identiﬁcation purposes (e.g., Master Patient Index) then subsequent data return. We have ﬁrst focused on getting data into the HIE so the HIE can establish a relationship between the ﬁeld clinician and the patient, thereby enabling data to asynchr onously ﬂow back t o a clinician. MIHIN’ s deplo yment announcement includes an ideal summar y of this appr oach: “...when [an ambulance] is transpor ting a patient to [a hospital], the service will transmit its electr onic patient care recor d containing the patient' s clinical data, including vital signs, medical history, and social determinants of health, to BLT, a company that specializ es in healthcar e data exchange and analytics. BLT will conv ert the data into a Continuity of Care Document (CCD) and secur ely transmit it to MiHIN. MiHIN will leverage its network to route the CCD to [the hospital], allowing them to gain a compr ehensiv e view of the patient' s condition befor e their arriv al. Additionally , MiHIN will establish a real-time activ e care relationship between the patient and [the hospital], facilitating seamless care coor dination…MiHIN will create a real-time activ e care relationship between the patient and the Mobile Medical agency , enabling it to receiv e 
 futur e dischar ge medication reconciliation repor ts from participating hospitals, impr oving medication management for patients. Furthermor e, MiHIN will secur ely shar e the ambulat ory CCD with any participating members of the patient' s care team who have an established r elationship with the patient within the MiHIN network. ” The Mobile Medical profession ’s success at sharing critical patient data, discr etely and in real-time, has not receiv ed nearly the degr ee of attention as challenges that other parts of the healthcar e ecosystem have faced when trying to do the same thing. Ther efore, it could be disastr ous for Mobile Medical services—which including Fire, Emer gency Medical Services, Non-Emer gency and Inter facility Transpor t, Critical Care, and Community Paramedicine—if HIEs become HDUs and are “anointed” as a sole statewide entity , because some states have already shown themselv es to be insular , ignoring or even rejecting calls to inter oper ate with Mobile Medical services oper ating in their coverage areas that are not now sharing data with the HIE but want to do so. Mobile Medical Services might ﬁnd themselv es in a “separ ate and unequal” purgatory if HDUs become standar d oper ating pr ocedur e for America ’s health data ecosystem. In July 2023, Healthcar e Inno vation repor ter David Raths wrote: “…Da vid Horr ocks, who was then president and CEO of the Maryland-based Chesapeak e Regional Information System for our Patients (CRISP), and John Kansky , president and CEO of the Indiana Health Information Exchange (IHIE), proposed the idea that every state should have a state-designated and regulated health data utility with a monopoly akin to an electric company . They noted that during the pandemic, states that already have such state-le vel organizations in place were able to leverage them for crucial public health needs. ” Horr ocks and Kansky may be correct that healthcar e services can better shar e data wher e there is one statewide HIE. But if homogenizing means leaving Mobile Medicine out, then communities will sacriﬁce details about polychronic patients in need of managed care (e.g., using models like “community paramedicine ”), and areas that are acutely impacted by substance use (data about pr ehospital o verdoses ar e vir tually absent fr om state pr escription drug monit oring pr ograms). The need for Mobile Medical data is underscor ed by the high number of roadwa y deaths , an increasing number of agencies resear ching blood administr ation in the ﬁeld, and non-tr anspor t “co-response ” deplo yment models seeking to align their datasets related to EMS, Fire, Public Safety, Homelessness, Substance Use, Mental and Beha vioral Health, Hospital-at-Home, Family Services, and other Social Drivers of Health (SDOH) consider ations. HDUs that already consume Mobile Medical data will surely keep doing so. But wher e HDUs do not consume Mobile Medical data, they will stay avoidably shut out until an adverse clinical encounter or even a weather disaster forces a too-late reconsider ation of the value of real-time access to the crews in the ﬁeld. We can avoid needing to react and wishing we had access to critical data. If we are going to realiz e together the vision of a connected and proactiv e Mobile Medical ecosystem, then we also need to advocate that even befor e HIEs crystalliz e into HDUs, they begin ingesting discr ete Mobile Medical data so as to ensur e that the y incorpor ate Mobile Medical pr ofessionals’ insights int o the patient’ s health st ory. The following is a perspectiv e provided by Dr. Chris Colwell, MD, Chief of Emer gency Medicine at Zuckerber g San F rancisco Gener al Hospital and T rauma Center: 
 "I do medical-legal reviews and almost half of the cases are somehow related to communication between EMS and the emer gency depar tment. Maybe half is a little overstating but certainly plenty of them. Areas like POLST and advance directiv es, wher e we are really struggling to get accur ate information, and the mechanism of injur y, social determinants of health, ” “It would have an impact on a number of levels: When we see a patient in the emer gency depar tment, there are a lot of pieces of critical information but no more so than we are getting ready to do a disposition and if I’m sending patients home, I need to know what situation I’m sending them to. And I can say that in a large percentage of my patients—I don’t know the exact percentage because it changes somewhat by day—but…we see a lot of elderly patients in the emer gency depar tment. They may have fallen. If I’m sending them back to a good-structur ed, well-suppor ted envir onment, that’s a totally different world than if I’m sending them back to one wher e they’re going to be by themselv es, and the same envir onment they just fell in, and are very likely to fall again. And this is a signiﬁcant impact on their lives, and that’s a signiﬁcant percentage of the patients we’re seeing in the emer gency depar tment. In an inter view , Dr. Colwell continued: “It’s not just the elderly . For patients in the emer gency depar tment that are in extremis, the information on POLST , advance directiv es, wills and those types of things are critical to decisions that we’re making. In many situations, there has been good work on it—but when that’s not communicated to us, all that good work that has been done is for naught, because without knowing it we have to go on the assumption that nothing exists. Ther e are additional resour ces—we ’ve got a social medicine team that can apply some resour ces we never had available befor e, based on information that paramedics have but we don’t necessarily . Social medicine is one of the resour ces that we can potentially apply . Knowing what situation the patient is going back to—par ticularly , a lot of urban emer gency depar tments are facing this [even] intermittently too: you see your patient one week end and then see them two weeks later and the situation has changed. They may be able to communicate some of that but either due to medical conditions or because it’s a confusing system and it’s not alwa ys easy , we can’t alwa ys get accur ate information from patients. This is wher e this information system is critical. I can access inpatient recor ds and that is certainly helpful [but out-of-hospital data obtained from Fir e & EMS] is the big missing piece that we need in the emer gency depar tment. ” 
 PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world? The late Carnegie Mellon business professor , Lester Lave, taught an impactful lesson that he called the “Iron Law of Government. ” It was simple and matter-of-fact enough to ﬁt on a bumper stick er: “When government gets involved, everybody loses. ” Lave meant that, even in uniﬁed governments wher e everyone is pulling in the same gener al direction, consensus is rare and ﬁckle. A poignant example of one is ensuring that Fire and EMS personnel, arriving at the scene of a child with special health needs in crisis, knows what those needs are prior to arriv al on-scene. Ther e is no downside to such awar eness—only upside for the patient, the family , the responders, the hospital that may eventually car e for the patient, and the br oader society . How many decision points ar e so clear? Occasionally , howe ver, the government’ s involvement gener ates a return on investment of time and debate that is dramatically positiv e because the status quo beneﬁts so few that almost anything is better than what we have now. Among these is the diﬃculty that patients and care providers face in gaining access to healthcar e data, including and especially the risk faced by everyone—patients, their families, responders, society—that something impor tant will be missed or dela yed. Since the HITECH Act became law as part of the American Reco very and Reinv estment Act of 2009, healthcar e systems have been navigating the question of who can shar e what with whom and when and why and how much must it cost t o do so. These questions—plus the special privacy provisions of 42 CFR Part 2, which govern the sharing and redaction of mental health- and substance use- related patient data—ha ve been at the hear t of inter oper ability challenges, and the Mobile Medical profession ’s continued disma y that they frequently don’t get outcomes repor ted back by hospitals. Forget that a frequent problem with the lack of data return is the lack of data to return on the hospital side…ne vertheless, the question of engineering and suppor t costs has long loomed over every discussion about adapting inter faces and workﬂows to shar e among ambulance, ﬁre or community paramedicine services; hospital systems, clinics, and nursing facilities; the ePCR system used by each ﬁeld service agency; and the electr onic health recor d and/or regional health information exchange systems (sometimes, more than one EHR and/or HIE ar e in place for a single healthcar e system). Such a “clear as mud” status quo often keeps responders feeling like they cannot meaningfully participate at the healthcar e table. That changed in July 2023, and it has meaningful ( pun intended! ) implications for the Mobile Medical profession, including Fire, EMS, Non-Emer gency/Inter facility Transpor t, Critical Care Transpor t, and Community Paramedicine services. In July 2023, the U.S. Depar tment of Health & Human Services’ Oﬃce of the Inspect or Gener al (OIG) “ release d a ﬁnal rule establishing the statut ory penalties created by the 21st Centur y Cures Act information blocking requir ements. The ﬁnal rule does not impose new information blocking provisions. OIG incorpor ated regulations published by ONC as the basis for enfor cing information blocking penalties . If OIG ﬁnds that an individual or entity has committed information blocking, they may be subject to up to a $1 million penalty per violation .” 
 The Information Blocking Final Rule begins to bulldo ze the economic impediments that prevent information sharing between Mobile Medical agencies, and between Mobile Medical agencies and hospitals and health information exchanges. At least four technology systems in our profession ’s ecosystem today appear to meet the feder al deﬁnition of a health information exchange (HIE) or network (HIN). Accor ding t o the Code of F eder al Regulations: Health information network or health information ex change means an individual or entity that determines, contr ols, or has the discr etion t o administer any r equir ement, policy , or agr eement that permits, enables, or r equir es the use of any technology or services for access, ex change, or use of electr onic health information: (1) Among mor e than two unaﬃliated individuals or entities (other than the individual or entity t o which this deﬁnition might apply) that ar e enabled t o exchange with each other; and (2) That is for a tr eatment, pa yment, or healthcar e oper ations purpose, as such terms ar e deﬁned in 45 CFR 164.501 regar dless of whether such individuals or entities ar e subject t o the r equir ements of 45 CFR parts 160 and 164 . The Information Blocking Final Rule is like a data version of the prohibition on “surprise billing” : organizations must know the costs associated with inter oper ability upfront, so they have the prerogativ e to accept them (or not). This change has a ﬁnancial implication for agencies in the ﬁeld: If a Mobile Medical agency wants to shar e data with a hospital or state health information exchange, the agency ’s ePCR vendor may be limited in its ability to do so. While the Information Blocking Final Rule lets companies char ge “ fees that result in a reasonable proﬁt margin, for accessing, exchanging, or using electr onic health information ” in a deﬁned set of circumstances, such char ges cannot be based on competitiv e factors–such as trying to set up roadblocks to other companies working in a region wher e one vendor has historically dominated–and they cannot “put a bubble over a region ” using point-t o-point solutions that allow sharing of some ePCRs but not others. Agencies also cannot be char ged twice. If a Mobile Medical agency is char ged for a subscription to a regional inter oper ability service, then the hospital cannot also be char ged for it. If the hospital is char ged, then the Mobile Medical agency cannot be char ged. “Double dipping” has been an issue for agencies across America, for years, although such tactics are no longer allowed. Agencies are encour aged t o review the guidance pr esented via Cornell Law School’ s Legal Information Institute . Organizations that subscribe to any softwar e that meets the feder al deﬁnition of a health information exchange or network should get to know—upfr ont—the costs associated with inter oper ability . They can no longer be imposed after-the-fact; cannot be used as an impediment to collabor ating with other companies; and must be “reasonable ” i.e., related to explainable costs. All of which should bode well for agencies that use ePCR systems and want to mak e Mobile Medical inter oper ability a near-term r eality . 