Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and the Office of the National Coordinator for
Health Information Technology
Attention: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
7033A, 330 C Street SW, Washington, DC 20201
February 23, 2026
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence
as Part of Clinical Care
Dear Dr. Keane,
On behalf of IMPaCT Care (IMPaCT), we thank you for the opportunity to offer comments in
response to the Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care.
We commend HHS’ efforts to accelerate adoption of AI within care and advance federal
incentives to enable AI to boost productivity, lower costs, and improve health outcomes.
We believe there are significant ways that AI can support Community Health Workers in
extending the reach of care quickly and at scale.
CHWs are trustworthy people who come from within the communities they serve. They get
to know their patients as people and provide holistic, tailored support based on individual
needs and preferences. Evidence-based CHW programs improve outcomes, reduce costs,
and address the twin crises in American health care today: the growing prevalence of
chronic illness in the context of clinical workforce shortages.
IMPaCT is the leading evidence-based Community Health Worker intervention in the U.S.,
designed to address the root causes of poor health. It is used by over 70 organizations
across 20 states and has been found in multiple randomized controlled trials to improve
chronic disease control, mental health, and quality of care while reducing total hospital
days and returning $2.47 for every dollar invested. In this letter, we offer comments in
response to specific questions included in the Request for Information including how
equipping CHWs with AI can expand access to person-centered and cost-effective care. We
also recommend CHW technology tools that can increase access and improve quality and
outcomes in the face of clinical workforce shortages.
Comments on Specific Questions included in the Request for Information
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care
and its adoption and use in clinical care?

The biggest barrier to AI adoption isn’t an implementation or regulatory barrier; it’s a
failure of imagination. Most AI tools in health care today are aimed at medical providers
(e.g., improving clinical decision support, reducing documentation burden). Building tools
for health care providers can make them more efficient and reduce medical errors, but it is
unlikely to fundamentally transform health outcomes for two reasons.
- First, there are simply not enough providers. The average wait time for a physician
appointment in large metro areas is 31 days, with even longer wait times for certain
specialties (e.g., 42 days for an obstetrician-gynecologist). Behavioral health
professionals are even more scarce - fewer than half of people with mental illness
get timely access to care, and even fewer people with substance use disorder are
able to access the care they need. Challenges accessing care are even greater in
rural areas and for individuals with Medicaid coverage.
- Second, health care providers are ill-equipped to address the root causes of poor
health. Most of the American workforce are clinicians e.g., (physicians, nurses,
medical assistants) whose main lever is medical care. Yet, medical care –the office
visit, the hospital stay– only accounts for 15% of what drives health outcomes.
Eighty-five percent of health is shaped by behavioral, social, and economic factors.
AI can do more than buttress a broken system. It can unlock human connection and
enable the health care workforce of the future. Community health workers (CHWs) are
trustworthy individuals who come from within the communities they serve. They provide
social support, care coordination, navigation and advocacy. Across four randomized
controlled trials and a large Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) multi-
site study, the IMPaCT model has been shown to save Medicaid payers $2.47 per dollar
invested, improve mental health, strengthen primary care engagement, reduce 30-day
readmissions and emergency department visits, and cut hospital days by 34% versus
matched controls.
Importantly, CHWs achieve these outcomes at a fraction of clinical labor costs. CHWs
represent an untapped source of human capital in health care, because they can be rapidly
deployed in any community.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS
prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS
regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to
develop or use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and applicable
Code of Federal Regulations citations.
A primary challenge for AI-powered Community Health Worker models is that the majority
of health care payment requires a clinical encounter with a health care provider. Several
Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation models, including the Long-term Enhanced
ACO Design (LEAD) model and the Geo track within the Achieving Healthcare Efficiency

through Accountable Design (AHEAD) model, create promising mechanisms for expanding
community-based models of care through flexible payment and multi-payer alignment.
Nowhere is innovation more necessary than in the safety net. We encourage the Health
Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (CMS) to partner to facilitate inclusion of Federally Qualified Health Centers
(FQHCs) in these models, including HRSA alignment to help FQHCs embrace AI.
6. Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and
cost expectations and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools
would have the greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give new
insights on quality, and help reduce costs?
Equipped with the right technology, Community Health Workers (CHWs) can be a new
“front door” to health care that is more person-centered, less expensive, and more
effective. In the IMPaCT model:
- CHWs use conversation prompts to solicit client goals. An AI scribe helps CHWs
focus on the person in front of them, rather than on capturing notes.
- CHWs then leverage decision supports and workflow tools within the IMPaCT
application that help them support goal attainment. The most common areas that
clients need support with are psychosocial (37%), health behavior change (36%), and
resources for daily living (e.g., housing, food; 15%). AI can help CHWs suggest
resources, fill out benefits applications, and manage follow-ups over an average of
12 encounters with a client.
- When clients do need medical care and health system navigation, CHWs can use
technology to rapidly connect to care teams to address common requests like
prescription refills without a new visit to a provider.
Using these technology tools, CHWs are able to help clients achieve more than 70% of their
goals, whether those goals are clinical (e.g., get my diabetes under control, find a
behavioral health provider) or social (e.g., get the home modifications I need to live
independently, apply for Social Security Income). AI acts as a force multiplier, allowing
CHWs to more rapidly connect with clients and help them achieve their goals, all while
managing larger panel sizes due to AI-driven efficiencies. By addressing a client’s greatest
needs, CHWs generate durable changes in health, increase access, and improve quality
while better using scarce clinician resources.
9. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see
addressed by the adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do
patients and caregivers have related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical care?
More than half of American adults have multiple chronic conditions and are not well-served
by our fragmented delivery system. The most effective interventions are person-centered

care plans that help individuals achieve their own goals. NCQA has developed person-
centered goal attainment quality measures, designed to measure what matters most to
each individual. Use of these measures could realign care, but to date, they have been
administratively burdensome to collect. AI tools can help efficiently capture person-
centered goals, allowing the health care system to align around what matters most to
patients.
Conclusion
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide comments. We look forward to continuing
to collaborate with HHS on these critical issues. For any questions or to request more
information, please contact Dawn Alley at dalley@impactcarehq.com.
Sincerely,
Shreya Kangovi, MD
CEO, IMPaCT Care