June 16, 2025
The Honorable Mehmet Oz, MD, MBA The Honorable Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Administrator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Hubert H. Humphrey Building U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, SW Mary E. Switzer Building
Washington, DC 20201 330 C Street, SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (RIN: 0938-AV68)
Dear Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane:
Amazon.com Inc. (Amazon) appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Health Technology Ecosystem request for
information (RFI) from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and Assistant Secretary for Technology
Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC). We support CMS and ASTP/ONC’s
goals to modernize the nation’s digital health ecosystem and empower Medicare beneficiaries through greater access to
innovative health technologies.
As a customer-obsessed company, we believe that patients and providers benefit from healthcare that is convenient,
accessible, and affordable. Efforts that advance a seamless, secure, and patient-centered digital health infrastructure will
improve a beneficiary’s longitudinal engagement in their care journey, resulting in improved health outcomes and reduced
healthcare expenditures. Across our comments below, we encourage CMS and ASTP/ONC to advance policies that help
streamline healthcare access and delivery, allow patients to control their care journey, maximize providers’ ability to deliver
superior care, and enable public- and private-sector innovation.
1. Support increased interoperability scenarios, including for payer-related use cases
Patients are tired of repeating their healthcare story and being surprised by costs at the pharmacy counter. Patients should
be able to access care where and when it is most convenient. They deserve to know the cost of their care before they get
the bill. And patients and providers deserve access to real-time, comprehensive health information that travels with them,
resulting in true interoperability that materially facilitates continuity of care. This includes information unique to a patient’s
clinical, coverage, and claims history. However, enhanced interoperability cannot rely on outdated, paper-based processes.
Digital mechanisms must be standard for connecting care and facilitating true transparency for all healthcare stakeholders,
enabling real-time decision-making, empowering patients with choice and selection, and removing the points of friction
that perpetuate existing barriers to care.
CMS and ASTP/ONC should identify and implement standards that further improve the ease with which patients and
providers can access the true out-of-pocket costs for patients and can see various pricing options, including drug discount
programs. Right now, patients lack meaningful agency when seeking to fill a prescription. Costs are opaque and, in many
circumstances, the lack of upfront clarity forces patients to walk away empty handed from the pharmacy counter. For
example, real-time prescription benefits (RTPBs) checks can help facilitate a better experience for patients and their care
team, allowing both parties to be cost-aware when electronically prescribing medications and selecting the most
appropriate pharmacy for their needs. This supports utilization, adherence, and improved outcomes. Optimally, patient-
and provider-facing RTPBs would display all key coverage-specific details on a medication, such as pricing, prior
authorization requirements, or therapeutic equivalents.
- 1 -

However, patients rarely know the cost of a prescription medication at the time of prescribing, and it often remains
unknown until they pick up the medication, schedule its delivery, or after administration in an office setting. Patients lack
meaningful tools to confirm prescription costs prior to the pharmacy counter. This lack of consumer-facing transparency, in
far too many cases, leads to patient abandonment and medication non-adherence at the pharmacy counter, reducing
effectiveness and increasing long-term healthcare costs. For example, research published by Dusetzina et al. in May 2023
shows approximately 1-in-5 Medicare beneficiaries reported cost-related medication non-adherence while an
overwhelming majority expressed interest in using a RTPB. Over half (7.5%) of the nearly 14% of Medicare beneficiaries that
were medication non-adherent cited cost as the primary factor (Petroski et al., Health Affairs, December 2024). Standards
that would mandate consistent, real-time price transparency application programming interfaces (APIs) between payers
and pharmacies would meaningfully address this consistent point of friction for beneficiaries.
Additionally, RTPBs are not currently capable of communicating to providers whether a particular medication is carried on a
pharmacy’s formulary or, if in stock, when the pharmacy can make the medication available to the patient for pickup or
delivery. Without this information, providers could unwittingly send a prescription to a pharmacy that is unable to fill the
prescription in a timely manner. This can result in treatment delay and significant burden for patients, who often will call
alternate pharmacies with urgent need. While an alternative pharmacy may be identified, beneficiaries still experience
friction in transferring prescriptions and may experience unexpected cost increases as pricing varies by pharmacy. This may
result in further delay given inconsistent use of electronic transfer protocols.
Relatedly, although existing RTPB standards support queries to drug discount programs, current standards can only
accommodate discount programs with processors that use a BIN(IIN)/PCN combination. This creates a significant workflow
limitation for providers seeking drug discount program pricing and for patients who may be cost-aware. The prescriber
must work with the patient to identify the right discount program and the discount program processor must then also be
capable of receiving the transaction and responding with an indication that the pricing presented is for a drug discount and
not a prescription benefit. CMS and ASTP/ONC should develop standards that accommodate patient preference and enable
greater utilization of drug discount programs that may not use a BIN(IIN)/PCN combination, particularly where such
resources can provide meaningful savings to beneficiaries.
Finally, as part of the adoption of standards, we encourage CMS and ASTP/ONC to enable the use of third-party tools
embedded in the electronic health record (EHR) workflow to support these real-time benefit capabilities. The use of
third-party tools—e.g., via APIs and clinical decision support (CDS) Hooks—can enable prescribers to integrate solutions
that best meet their and their patients’ needs.
Similar to RTPB hurdles, electronic prior authorization (ePA) has not yet been broadly adopted and streamlined, leading to
further constraints in patient access and delays in treatment. We appreciate the interest of both CMS and ASTP/ONC in
accelerating ePA and note the potential contributions of artificial intelligence (AI) to expedite reviews to support more
prompt patient access to the medications and services they need. CMS and ASTP/ONC should ensure that both the
technology used by providers and health plans have deployed standards-based ePA capabilities that enable rapid decision-
making and the electronic submission of additional evidence as required. For RTPBs and ePA alike, greater visibility into
utilization constraints enable earlier interventions that promote timely access to care.
2. Enhance patient and provider access to more data to support care
When patients and providers have instant access to health data, it transforms passive recipients into empowered patients
while enabling clinicians to make smarter, faster care decisions. Consistent with our customer-obsessed approach to
healthcare, we seek to identify and deploy incremental, yet meaningful, improvements to the care delivery experience that
promote adherence and continuity of care. Fragmentation across care teams, specialists, pharmacists, and others results in
a diminished beneficiary experience and often discourages those patients from building long-term relationships with
healthcare providers. A key component associated with patient and provider friction resides in data transportability,
interoperability, and timeliness.
- 2 -

While meaningful efforts are underway to optimize that experience, patients and caregivers do not have access to tools
that enable a complete picture of their care journey. In an optimal environment for patients, caregivers, and providers,
health management and care navigation applications would utilize a common technical standard that facilitates truly
seamless movement of health information in real-time across covered applications. Disaggregation of clinical data
(including primary care, specialists, and hospital-based care), scheduling tools, pricing for products and services, and other
key metrics across care teams exacerbates data silos and limits optimal care coordination.
CMS and ASTP/ONC continue to make significant progress towards a more interoperable and consumer-friendly
environment. However, barriers remain that inhibit adoption across the healthcare value chain. Examples include a
patchwork of state privacy laws with varying levels of consent requirements and inconsistent levels of participation in
health information exchanges (HIEs) by EHR vendors and health systems. Continued policymaking should enable all
stakeholders to build and deploy technologies intended to better empower patients and clinicians with actionable data and
improve provider efficiencies without financial constraints, additional regulatory burdens, or other unnecessary barriers.
Even with greater control over one’s health information, downstream barriers persist and hinder care, particularly price
transparency. The lack of truly accessible price information often stymies continuity of care and adherence to treatment
regimens. As with practically all other segments of our economy, patients should understand clearly the cost of a product or
service before it is received. As previously referenced, medication adherence continues to serve as an excellent barometer
for the impact of this opacity. Real-time, consumer-facing access to prescription drug prices will enable patients to address
cost concerns at the point of care with their prescriber rather than at the pharmacy counter where alternative pathways
are limited. To help empower patients and provide needed visibility, we encourage CMS and ASTP/ONC to establish
standards that would make drug formulary information available through certified Patient Access APIs, enabling
patients, caregivers, and providers to compare patient-specific prices for prescribed medications against available
alternatives.
In addition to formulary-level data, we also encourage CMS to ensure patients have actionable information at their
fingertips when making healthcare purchasing decisions. For example, CMS could mandate the prescription drug plans it
regulates to provide more patient-specific cost data through the Patient Access API, including information about the
patient’s accumulator progress towards their deductible and out-of-pocket limits, preferred alternative medications, and
utilization restrictions like prior authorization requirements (e.g., step therapy requirements). CMS and ASTP/ONC should
coordinate in developing and implementing standards that better empower beneficiaries through timely access to their
specific, real-time drug pricing information.
Building on the 21st Century Cures Act (“Cures”), ASTP/ONC and CMS have accelerated patient access to critical data from
individuals’ EHRs. Increased use of the Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) standard has enabled patients to
download key elements of their health records, and equipped clinicians with greater access to digital health tools that
support clinical decision-making. While meaningful, the lack of coherent patient and provider digital authentication
continues to perpetuate disconnected data silos for patients and providers alike.
Although there has been this initial success from the rollout of the FHIR standard, regulations focused on patient and
provider access to data via FHIR-based APIs have not yet included “all data elements” as required by Cures. For example,
medical images—including X-rays and MRI scans—offer critical information to inform diagnoses and support patient care.
Currently, because the ASTP/ONC certification criteria do not require the inclusion of links to medical images (e.g.,
accessible through a web-based Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) application) within the U.S. Core
Data for Interoperability (USCDI) or FHIR resources, patients must often request a CD of their images and physically take
them to another provider for a second opinion. And, when trying to access their own images at home, patients may not
have the necessary hardware in their computer capable of inputting CDs. When patients and clinicians lack access to
images, they may unnecessarily repeat imaging procedures—increasing avoidable costs on patients and the healthcare
system and unnecessarily exposing patients to repeat procedures.
- 3 -

Therefore, we encourage ASTP/ONC and CMS to accelerate the interoperability of images, such as via the proposed
certification requirements in the HTI-2 rule that would enable access to an imaging link with electronic viewing or
retrieval capabilities to increase patient and clinician access to this diagnostic information without the need to rely on CD
or other physical media. Including links to images in standardized APIs will further increase access to images for care
coordination among clinicians and enable patients to incorporate this information in their personal health records. This
real-time, electronic access will also obviate the need for patients to shuttle between clinician offices to pick up and drop
off their images or redo these expensive procedures.
In another example, the currently required data via FHIR APIs lack cancer care data and genomic data elements.
Accelerating FHIR-based access to these data elements could better support the understanding of: cancer severity and
progression; details on treatments attempted; toxicity from treatment; and other information with clinical significance.
Data elements listed by ASTP/ONC in USCDI staging areas should serve as the roadmap on data elements to accelerate for
inclusion in FHIR-based APIs.
Deployment of an API for complete electronic health information (EHI) export in the absence of additional standards could
prove exceedingly difficult for receiving organizations to use effectively without significant product development and
processing capability. While it would be helpful for HIEs to enable the exchange of unstructured documents and data, a
requirement that EHRs offer an API to access such data may prove unmanageable. As such, CMS and ASTP/ONC should
continue to offer certified health IT developers regulatory flexibility to deploy reasonable and appropriate mechanisms
for EHI export.
Opportunities also exist to better enable the access, exchange, and use of EHI among healthcare providers consistent with
the information blocking provisions in Cures. ASTP/ONC should consider modifying the manner exception at 45 CFR 171.301
to require that pricing terms offered by the covered actor meet the fees or licensing exceptions. The current process allows
covered actors to bypass these exceptions if the manner requested does not solely rely on certified health IT programs or
published content and transport standards. Many EHRs require wiring into their unique data models, or use of a proprietary
API, to properly integrate an application. By insisting that a custom integration into the proprietary data model is necessary
and then exhausting negotiations by offering two less-than-responsive alternatives, these EHRs can continue to require
application developers to pay a percentage of application revenue as a price for integration. This unfortunately results in a
high cost for technology developers looking to build and deploy meaningful clinical solutions to providers.
3. Simplify and expand use of cloud services, call centers for hospitals and beneficiaries
Today’s healthcare ecosystem demands unprecedented levels of data integration, security, and digital innovation to
improve care for Medicare beneficiaries and reduce costs. Yet many of the critical systems used by healthcare providers,
payers, and CMS remain constrained by traditional data center infrastructure that requires significant upfront investment
while creating ongoing maintenance and security challenges. Cloud adoption can provide healthcare providers and CMS
with the essential building blocks for a modern digital health ecosystem—including access to state-of-the-art security
controls and AI-based tools. The first step to leveraging these modern tools is secure migration from legacy data centers to
cloud services—an approach that CMS should both accelerate for its own infrastructure and encourage health plans and
hospitals to undertake.
For example, one of the most significant yet overlooked challenges in healthcare is the fragmented and inefficient call
center ecosystem that Medicare beneficiaries, providers, and payers must navigate. Currently, CMS operates dozens of
separate call centers with hundreds of different phone numbers, creating unnecessary confusion, frustration, and cost.
When beneficiaries call the wrong number—which happens frequently—they experience transfers, long wait times, and
often must repeat their information multiple times, leading to poor customer experience and reduced access to needed
services. The same applies when Medicare beneficiaries call hospitals to refill a medication, schedule an appointment,
follow-up on their care, seek their medical records, or the myriad other reasons patients contact their healthcare providers.
This fragmentation not only creates a poor experience for Medicare beneficiaries, but it also represents a significant cost
- 4 -

burden for CMS and providers, as each separate call center requires its own infrastructure, training programs, management
teams, and technology systems. By implementing a consolidated approach with a single-entry point supported by modern
technology, CMS and providers could dramatically reduce operational costs while improving service quality. Using CMS’
own operations as an example, rather than consolidating to a single number, CMS could implement an enterprise service
call center solution that would allow CMS to: scale resources dynamically to handle fluctuations in call volumes; leverage AI
and natural language processing for intelligent call routing; provide omnichannel support across voice, chat, email, and
mobile; enable seamless integration with CMS data systems for personalized service; support geographically distributed
agents for increased staffing flexibility; and implement advanced analytics. This single solution would optimally be
supported through: an improved website and mobile app design to reduce the need for support calls via intuitive self-
service options; a robust smartphone application that allows beneficiaries to complete simple tasks without calling; a
consolidate entry-point for all call centers behind a unified intelligent routing system; and seamless data sharing among
CMS’ diverse data systems.
In another example, Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs) play a vital role in claims processing, program integrity,
and beneficiary service delivery—yet they often are not adopting modern technology solutions. Currently, each MAC
maintains separate IT systems and infrastructure, which can create redundancies and limit their ability to rapidly implement
innovative solutions—including AI. This fragmentation impacts operational efficiency and the ability to consistently deliver
high-quality service to providers and beneficiaries. CMS could address these issues by both encouraging cloud migration,
and even offering select shared services as an option for MAC adoption. For example, CMS could offer use of a cloud
environment with: common security controls and compliance frameworks; shared data services to support program
integrity and fraud detection; standardized APIs for simpler system interconnection; advanced analytics platforms that each
MAC can leverage for their specific needs; and elastic infrastructure that scales efficiently with workload demands. By
offering enterprise cloud services as a foundation, CMS could help MACs realize an estimated $1 billion in annual savings
through reduced IT overhead while enhancing their ability to serve providers and beneficiaries. MACs could also benefit
from these shared services by having the flexibility to focus their resources on mission-specific innovations rather than
maintaining basic infrastructure.
Finally, use of cloud services can also help organizations mitigate security risks and better meet security requirements than
if they manage their own data centers. For example, the cloud can help eliminate the risk of orphan or hidden servers, and
aid organizations to better monitor, detect, and shut down security breaches—further protecting patient health
information. Cloud services also offer redundancies to create data back-ups in the event of ransomware incidents. CMS
should examine how to encourage the use of more secure, resilient data systems, such as by offering payment incentives
for cloud-based data backups.
4. Strengthen incentives and resources to accelerate adoption of value-based care practices
A key component of value-based care is the shift away from volume-based practice and prioritization of an outcomes-based
approach rooted in quality. Emphasizing a holistic, beneficiary-centered approach that indexes on enhanced care
coordination and data-driven decision-making improves patient satisfaction and health outcomes while reducing the overall
cost of care. Alternative payment models (APMs) help achieve this goal by incentivizing quality and efficiency and holding
organizations accountable for outcomes that are commensurate with population health needs and associated risk-based
benchmarks. This shift also enables, and encourages, value-based care organizations to leverage digital health technologies
as a meaningful tool in the care delivery arsenal.
Accountable, value-based care cannot function without a comprehensive, real-time view of the patient to function
effectively. To accelerate the adoption and effective use of digital health tools in accountable care organizations (ACOs), we
recommend a multi-faceted approach. This includes offering higher shared savings percentages for ACOs demonstrating
effective digital tool implementation, providing grants or subsidies to offset initial investment costs, and introducing bonus
payments tied to patient engagement metrics via digital platforms. Additionally, allowing digital health investments to
count towards risk-bearing requirements can reward further adoption. These measures should support the implementation
- 5 -

of crucial technologies, such as real-time patient event notifications, automated quality reporting, predictive analytics,
telehealth services, and integration of diverse data sources including EHRs, claims, and patient-reported outcomes. While
challenges such as data quality, complex consent processes, and inconsistent standards must be addressed, the benefits of
streamlined quality measurements, improved care coordination, enhanced data exchange efficiency, and earlier fraud
detection underscore the importance of these digital initiatives in advancing value-based care.
To help encourage further use of digital health management and care navigation products, CMS should also establish
additional benefit enhancements in ACO programs that enables deployment among beneficiaries. Given the focus of these
organizations to maintain a high care quality threshold within a capitated payment environment, these enhancements will
help incentivize greater adoption and deployment of digital health tools by providers and use among beneficiaries.
Similarly, additional benefit enhancements or quality metrics tied to deployment of population health analytics tools, care
coordination programs or other interventions further reward uptake. Together, these mechanisms empower ACOs to
deploy digital health technologies with the clear focus of improving provider engagement and patient outcomes.
There are also opportunities from CMS to promote innovation across APMs through clearly articulated technology
standards. Refinement to and modernization of the ACO beneficiary outreach requirements can materially reduce barriers
to active patient management and needed outreach. CMS should collaborate with ACOs to develop and implement APIs to
better support voluntary alignment of beneficiaries. For example, CMS should allow voluntary alignment in the home when
there is an established relationship with the beneficiary and the home is the site of care. This would provide parity with the
capabilities afforded to brick-and-mortar practices. Additionally, we encourage CMS to enable real-time eligibility checks for
beneficiaries compared to the existing quarterly voluntary alignment periods. Enabling more real-time coordination would
minimize provider and beneficiary confusion and enable ACOs to proactively engage with these beneficiaries and avoid long
wait periods for resubmission. CMS should also allow ACOs to access the MARx system (or similar lookup mechanism) to
check beneficiary eligibility and confirm address on file before offering or submitting voluntary alignment. Such
transparency will enable ACOs to operate more efficiently and mitigate friction associated with ineligible beneficiaries.
Lastly, the development and deployment of standardized APIs for patient and population health services can meaningfully
support a data exchange that enables comprehensive care and resulting healthcare outcomes. For value-based care
organizations, in particular, the nature of their global risk arrangement relies in large part on obtaining accurate claims data
as quickly as possible. It remains critically important that value-based care organizations receive timely transmissions of
claims data to appropriately track and address beneficiary healthcare needs and opportunities for improved outcomes.
5. Modernize health information data exchanges to optimize care delivery
Despite advances in technology, clinical studies—for communicable diseases, chronic conditions, and unmet needs—
remain constrained by limited scalability, lack of integration with clinical workflows, and insufficient leveraging of routinely
collected longitudinal health data. Clinical trials continue to run parallel to routine care, limiting their representativeness
and efficiency, especially for pediatric cancer and rare disease populations. Many patients are unable to enroll in studies
because they are not located near or otherwise unable to access the site leading the trial.
The Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA)—developed by ASTP/ONC to serve as a single on-ramp
to health data sharing nation-wide—or similar efforts can help scale existing clinical interfaces and better use of real-world
evidence for research purposes. However, early versions of TEFCA do not authorize or direct the sharing of their data for
research purposes. Therefore, we encourage ASTP/ONC and CMS to collaborate to list research as approved uses in
future versions of TEFCA, including via patient-directed data sharing for research purposes.
Patient and provider access to the full suite of an individual’s EHI is also critically important in enabling comprehensive and
coordinated care. TEFCA assists provider access by facilitating the growth of private, national HIEs. By developing a unified
governance approach, more regional exchanges and health systems have elected to participate with these national
- 6 -

exchanges, making them a rich data source for providers seeking helpful clinical information to assist them in caring for
their clinical populations.
CMS and ASTP/ONC should encourage healthcare providers and HIEs to make medication histories and clinical indication
information available to pharmacists. Pharmacists play an integral role in ensuring patient safety. To prevent dangerous
contraindications or drug interactions, pharmacists must review a patient’s entire medication history. Today, pharmacists
lack access to information about medications sent to other pharmacies, including whether those prescriptions are
ultimately filled and dispensed. Too often, pharmacists cannot access an individual’s clinical data from available HIEs and
related networks. While this functionality helps facilitate real-time transmission of structured clinical indication information
to pharmacists with prescriptions, access to such information is not guaranteed. These gaps often delay access to care
unnecessarily due to the need for follow-up.
ASTP/ONC should also leverage qualified health information networks (QHINs) qualification criteria to require QHINs to
make clinical data available to pharmacists that have established treatment relationships with patients. Pharmacies want
to help patients get access to their own complete medication histories and cannot do so if they are left out of an HIE. To
maximize the clinical effectiveness of a drug utilization review, a pharmacist should have access to all medications a patient
has been prescribed. This would allow pharmacists to fulfill their responsibility to assess contraindications and provide
patients with an easier mechanism to obtain their full medication histories from their pharmacies.
We also support standards development and adoption that would eliminate time lags that occur before medications are
updated within HIEs. Medications change quickly and real-time updates to medication lists best ensure patient safety. For
example, some QHIN participants still update medications via batch FTP transmissions, thereby increasing the risk of stale
medication data.
Thank you for your consideration of our input. We look forward to working with CMS and ASTP/ONC as they take continued
steps to empower patients and providers and meaningfully improve health outcomes.
- 7 -