February 23, 2026
Dr. Thomas Keane
Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Attn: HHS Health Sector AI RFI - Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care (Document ID: HHS-ONC-2026-0001-0001, 90 FR 60108)
Submitted electronically via https://www.regulations.gov/document/HHS-ONC-2026-0001-0001
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane,
The National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCSBN) appreciates the opportunity to submit comment
in response to the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) request for information “Accelerating
the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care.”
NCSBN is an independent, non-profit association comprising 59 boards of nursing (BONs) from across the
U.S., the District of Columbia, and four U.S. territories. BONs are responsible for protecting the public
through regulation of licensure, nursing practice, and discipline of the nearly 6 million registered nurses
(RNs), licensed practical/vocational (LPN/VNs), and Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) in the
U.S. with active licenses.
In this comment NCSBN specifically addresses areas where it believes HHS’s RFI on health sector uses of
artificial intelligence (AI) can benefit from research exploring ways to mitigate risks associated with AI to
prioritize patient safety. This includes examining algorithmic bias in AI systems, transparency and proper
oversight of AI systems, and ethical or professional concerns for nurses working in settings with AI
technology.
Responses are provided, from a nursing regulation and patient safety perspective, in response to question
#9 – “what concerns do patients and caregivers have related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical care?”
Algorithmic Bias in AI Systems
As the use of AI technologies becomes increasingly prevalent, policymakers and healthcare providers must
take precautions against the risk of algorithmic bias in AI systems. Algorithmic systems can mirror
structural data gaps, entrenched biases, and limited knowledge about specific patient populations, which
in turn can reproduce or amplify demographic and socioeconomic inequities in healthcare. Algorithmic
bias occurs when AI systems inadvertently perpetuate existing healthcare gaps, and if not properly trained
1

and validated on varied datasets, the algorithms that run these systems could lead to unequal treatment
recommendations or diagnoses.i
Often, algorithmic failures are not anomalies but can be symptomatic of broader deficiencies in the design,
validation, and deployment of AI-driven technologies that fail to represent a range of patient populations.
As noted in a recent Journal of Nursing Regulation article, “disparities highlight the ethical obligation of
technology companies to design systems that are inclusive and equitable as a cornerstone of innovation,
which will give rise to technologies that contribute to rather than hinder the advancement of optimal
human-technology interaction.”ii Additionally, once AI technologies are deployed, addressing such
concerns can be challenging in a healthcare setting, particularly in rural healthcare settings where resource
limitations and miscommunications that occur when patients are transferred between facilities contribute
to adverse patient outcomes.iii These systemic inequities suggest a proactive approach is needed to ensure
AI technologies that are deployed mitigate harm and ensure equity rather than exacerbate such concerns.iv
A 2023 Journal of the American Medical Association study demonstrates the importance of ensuring AI
models are not biased.v According to the study, nearly 67% of clinical participants (physicians, nurse
practitioners, physician assistants, and others) were not aware AI models could be systematically biased
based on patient demographics.vi In the study, hospital-based clinicians reviewed clinical vignettes of
patients hospitalized with acute respiratory failure, including symptoms, physical examination findings,
laboratory results, and chest radiographs. Participants were asked to assess the likelihood of certain
diagnoses like pneumonia, heart failure, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, with some vignettes
supplemented by AI-generated predictions and image-based explanations outlining the model’s reasoning.
While clinician diagnostic accuracy improved modestly, these gains were undermined when the AI models
contained bias. The study found a “systematically biased model decreased accuracy by 11.3 percentage
points, which only improved a nonsignificant 2.3 percentage points when the model included explanations
for its recommendations.” vii Notably, the article found AI models offering explanations might not be
enough to mitigate harm. These findings suggest that transparency alone may not be enough to counteract
embedded algorithmic bias and that reliance on flawed models can meaningfully degrade clinical decision-
making and the accuracy and quality of patient care.
Outside of algorithmic biases related to patient demographics, other systemic AI or machine learning
biases can include “label bias” where a label applied to patients does not mean the same thing for all
patients; “missing data bias” where missing information affects the predictive value of a model; “training-
serving bias” where a model is deployed on patients whose data are not similar to the data on which the
model was trained; and “automation bias” where the provider is unaware that a model is less accurate for
a specific group and may trust it too much or rely on inaccurate predictions.viii In nursing contexts in
particular, a human-centered framework is essential to ensure that technological innovation
complements, rather than compromises, professional judgment and patient advocacy. As emphasized in
research, “Nurses must be involved in the design, development, and implementation of AI technologies to
ensure that these tools align with their clinical expertise and patient-centered values.” ix
Transparency, Model Limitations, and Oversight of AI Technologies
Research suggests that a lack of transparency in technological systems compounds ethical concerns for
clinicians, particularly pertaining to AI-based technologies when clinicians are unable to interpret how
decisions are made by ‘black box’ algorithms.x This opacity erodes trust, complicates accountability, and
2

places healthcare providers in ethically uncertain positions when errors occur.xi One example that
illustrates this concern is an independent review of a sepsis prediction tool in 2021 that illustrated the risks
of opaque AI systems in clinical care.xii The model was protected as proprietary software and developed
using data from only three health systems. There was also limited ability for clinicians and other systems
to validate the logic used to compute sepsis alerts.xiii When an external validation study was conducted
involving nursing informatics experts, physicians, and engineers, that study found the tool had low
sensitivity and high alert fatigue.xiv The study also noted the lack of publicly available performance data,
which left clinicians responsible for outcomes without adequate transparency. Nurses who used the
system and other advocates further criticized it for excluding nursing documentation, restricting overrides,
and reducing holistic nursing care to fragmented data tasks.xv
In addition to issues with transparency, health facilities, providers, and the companies that build AI systems
must be vigilant against other model limitations, such as hallucinations or data drift. Independent
healthcare research nonprofit and patient safety organization ECRI identified risks with AI-enabled health
technologies as the top health technology hazard concern for 2025.xvi The report warned that AI systems
may contain technical vulnerabilities such as “hallucinations,” in which AI systems generate false or
misleading outputs, as well as performance instability resulting from data drift and model “brittleness,” or
the inability to adapt appropriately to novel conditions. Further, it cautions that model degradation over
time, particularly in systems that continuously ingest new data or operate amid shifting clinical
environments, further compounds these risks.xvii The report stresses that organizational factors, including
insufficient oversight, weak data governance, and overreliance on automated outputs, can heighten
patient safety hazards, cautioning that “placing too much trust in an AI model—and failing to appropriately
scrutinize its output—may lead to inappropriate patient care decisions.” xviii
The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General (OIG) has also recently highlighted
the importance of oversight and risk management for AI tools used in clinical care. Last month, the VA OIG
released a preliminary result advisory memorandum communicating a potential patient safety risk related
to Veterans Health Administration’s (VHA’s) use of generative AI chat tools for clinical care and
documentation.xix The OIG’s preliminary report expressed that the office found enough concern to issue a
preliminary memo to put VHA leadership on notice about AI-related risk pending a final review. The report
also generally noted that generative AI can produce inaccurate outputs, including omissions which may
affect diagnosis and treatment decisions, and expressed concern about the VHA’s ability to promote and
safeguard patient safety without a standardized process for managing AI-related risks.xx
These examples highlight how important transparency, understanding technological limitations, and
sufficient human oversight are to ensure AI does not undermine the provision of reliable, safe, and
accurate patient care. Ensuring these and other safeguards are in place to manage risk should therefore
be a high priority for the healthcare tech industry and providers alike.
Ethical and Professional Standards Concerns for Nurses
Nurses constitute the largest segment of the healthcare workforce at nearly 6 million providers
nationwide. They are often among the most familiar providers in a patient care team. Given the nursing
profession's historically high trust and visibility among patients, patients tend to overwhelmingly hold
nurses accountable for decisions made with AI tools.xxi From the patient’s vantage point, AI-enabled care
may appear streamlined and intuitive; however the unseen side can entail ethical strain and moral conflict
3

for nurses, particularly when education, training, and institutional support for AI integration are
inconsistent or insufficient.xxii As AI tools are increasingly employed in clinical settings, nurses are no longer
merely users of technology. They are ethical stewards, patient advocates, and system translators who
must bridge algorithmic output and human-centered care.xxiii
A nurse’s responsibility becomes more complex, not less, as AI takes on more active roles in clinical triage,
diagnostics, and risk assessments.xxiv Rather than replacing nurses, AI increases the need for clinicians’
strong judgment and oversight. Recent research highlights the importance of building critical thinking into
the daily practices involving AI’s ethical, social, and clinical impacts to prevent dehumanization and
depersonalization of care.xxv Healthcare organizations can minimize risks by prioritizing comprehensive
training, support, and oversight for nurses using AI technologies to ensure nurses have the knowledge and
tools to use technology responsibly while also maintaining professional autonomy. Additionally,
interdisciplinary collaboration is essential to align technology use with nursing values and legal
protections, minimizing the risk of improper use and its consequences.xxvi For example, clinical decision
tools powered by AI may issue recommendations that conflict with a nurse's professional judgment,
creating ethical and legal dilemmas. Nurses may face accusations of negligence or failure to uphold their
professional standards if errors occur as a result.xxvii For nursing regulators, these situations require both
the understanding of systems used and the clinical decision-making of the nurse. Integrating AI
technologies into nursing workflows demands technical proficiency and ethical judgment to ensure
equitable and patient-centered outcomes. It also warrants recognizing the profession's role as active co-
designers and leaders in shaping AI to be consistent with nursing values and priorities.xxviii
The Role of the Nursing Regulator
Recognizing the integration of AI into healthcare delivery, it is critical to recognize the role nursing
regulators have in the delivery of safe and quality nursing care to the public. BONs can ensure nurses
receive proper education about AI in healthcare. Boards of Nursing across the country protect the public
through the nursing education program approval and oversight process. Program approval is the official
recognition of nursing education programs that meet standards of approval established by Boards of
Nursing. The program approval process ensures that programs are qualified to prepare students for
licensure and safe and competent practice.xxix Nursing regulators could play a role in ensuring the
integration of education on AI systems into nursing program curricula. Nursing students graduating with
greater AI literacy, understanding how the systems are built and utilized, and the expectations for the
nurse will protect patients and strengthen healthcare.
BONs also protect the public through investigating complaints and executing disciplinary processes. As AI
continues to play an increasing role in health care, it is critical for regulators to understand how AI was
utilized in the delivery of care that led to error and/or patient harm. Increasing transparency into AI
systems is vital for nursing regulators to be able to identify potential system issues that may directly impact
licensee decision-making. While nurses remain responsible for clinical decisions, there is a need for
understanding and regulating the AI systems that may be utilized when those decisions are made.
Conclusion
We appreciate the chance to submit comments in response to this RFI and look forward to opportunities
to work with HHS on policies impacting the nursing profession and its regulation. Nursing regulator
4

expertise should be sought and included in discussions to ensure patient safety in the use of AI in
healthcare delivery. If you have any questions or would like additional information, please do not hesitate
to contact Ashley Shelton, NCSBN’s Director of Federal and External Affairs (ashelton@ncsbn.org). We look
forward to remaining engaged with you on these important issues.
Sincerely,
Ashley N. Shelton, JD
Director, Federal & External Affairs
National Council of State Boards of Nursing
i Ahmed, S.K.. (2024). Artificial intelligence in nursing: Current trends, possibilities and pitfalls. Journal of Medicine,
Surgery, and Public Health, Volume 3, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.glmedi.2024.100072. Accessed February 17, 2026,
at https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2949916X24000252
ii Johnson, E. et al. (2025). A critical juncture: Reimagining nursing professional identity and regulation in the ethical
integration of innovation and technology in healthcare. Journal of Nursing Regulation. 16(1): 10 – 16.
https://www.journalofnursingregulation.com/article/S2155-8256(25)00049-3/fulltext
iii Id.
iv Id.
v Jabbour S, Fouhey D, Shepard S, et al. (2023). Measuring the Impact of AI in the Diagnosis of Hospitalized Patients:
A Randomized Clinical Vignette Survey Study. JAMA. 330(23):2275–2284. doi:10.1001/jama.2023.22295. Accessed
February 17, 2026, at https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2812908
vi Id.
vii Id.
viii Rajkomar A. (2018). Ensuring Fairness in Machine Learning to Advance Health Equity. Ann Intern Med. 2018 Dec
18;169(12):866-872. Accessed February 17, 2026, at https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6594166/
ix Ahmed, S.K. (2024).
x Johnson, E. et al. (2025); See Fehr, J. et al. (2024). A trustworthy AI reality-check: The lack of transparency of
artificial intelligence products in healthcare. Front Digit Health. 6(2024). Accessed February 17, 2026, at
https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/digital-health/articles/10.3389/fdgth.2024.1267290/full
xi Johnson, E. et al. (2025).
xii Johnson, E. et al. (2025); See Wong, A. et al. (2021). External validation of a widely implemented proprietary
sepsis prediction model in hospitalized patients. JAMA Internal Medicine. 2021; 181(8).
xiii Id.
xiv Id.
xv Id.
xvi ECRI. (2025). Top 10 Health Technology Hazards for 2025. Accessed February 17, 2026, at
https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0826/0472/0443/files/Top10HealthTechHazards_2025_ExecutiveBrief.pdf?v=173
3223585
xvii Id.
xviii Id.
xix U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of the Inspector General. (2026). Review of VHA’s Use of Generative
Artificial Intelligence. Accessed February 18, 2026, at https://vaoig.gov/sites/default/files/reports/2026-01/vaoig-
26-00182-42_final.pdf
xx Id.
5

xxi Galatzan, B.J. et al. (2025). Regulating at the AI frontier: The collision of policy, regulation, and nursing practice.
Journal of Nursing Regulation. 16(3): 207 – 215. https://www.journalofnursingregulation.com/article/S2155-
8256(25)00101-2/fulltext
xxii Id.; See Benda, N. (2024). Patient Perspectives on AI for Mental Health Care: Cross-Sectional Survey Study.
Journal of Medical Internet Research (JMIR) Mental Health. 11, e58462. Accessed February 20, 2026, at
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11447436/
xxiii Galatzan, B.J. et al. (2025); See American Nurses Association. (2022). The ethical use of artificial intelligence in
nursing practice [position statement]. https://www.nursingworld.org/globalassets/practiceandpolicy/nursing-
excellence/ana-position-statements/the-ethical-use-of-artificial-intelligence-in-nursing-practice_bod-approved-
12_20_22.pdf; Johnson, E. et al. (2025).
xxiv Galatzan, B.J. et al. (2025).
xxv Id.; See El Arab et al. (2025). The role of AI in nursing education and practice: Umbrella review. Journal of
Medical Internet Research. 2025; 27, e69881. https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12008698/
xxvi Johnson, E. et al. (2025); See Mello, M.M., Guha, N. (2024). Understanding liability risk from healthcare
AI [Policy brief]. Stanford University’s Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence.
https://hai.stanford.edu/policy-brief-understanding-liability-risk-healthcare-ai
xxvii Johnson, E. et al. (2025); See Reiner, G. (2024) 5 Risk control considerations as nurse practitioners' scope of
practice expands
Minority Nurse. https://minoritynurse.com/5-risk-control-considerations-as-nurse-practitioners-scope-of-practice-
expands
xxviii Johnson, E. et al. (2025).
xxix Spector, N. et al. (2018). Board of Nursing Approval of Registered Nurse Education Programs. 8(4): 22 – 31.
https://www.journalofnursingregulation.com/article/S2155-8256(17)30178-3/fulltext
6