RUPRI Health Panel
Keith J. Mueller, PhD, Chair
Alva O. Ferdinand, DrPH, JD
Mark Holmes, PhD
Alana D. Knudson, PhD
Jennifer P. Lundblad, PhD, MBA
A. Clinton MacKinney, MD, MS
Timothy D. McBride, PhD
https://rupri.org/
February 20, 2026
Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
File Code: RIN 0955-AA13
By electronic submission at: http://www.regulations.gov
The Rural Policy Research Institute Health Panel (Panel) was established in 1993 to provide
science-based, objective policy analysis to federal lawmakers. The RUPRI Health Panel is
pleased to respond to this Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of
Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13). Artificial Intelligence applications
in clinical care and associated activities of healthcare organizations could contribute to reaching
the Panel’s vision of a High Performing Rural Health System, and a vision for the future of rural
health. Our comments in this response draw on a report posted on the website of the National
Advisory Committee on Rural Health and Human Services (NACRHHS); the RUPRI Center for
Rural Health Policy Analysis contributed to the content of that report.
The NACRHHS identified policy priorities in rural health system development that would benefit
from technologies, including use of AI (those that affect direct clinical care are highlighted):
• Improving transportation services in rural places, particularly for high-need patients
• Participating in new collaborations with other organizations (including community-based
human service organizations), driven by data analytics
• Negotiating payment rates with commercial insurance plans, including Medicare
Advantage plans and Medicaid Managed Care Organizations, and maximizing revenues
through improved documentation (coding, other information related to patient chronic
and episodic conditions)
• Using information technology to improve care management, particularly relevant in
optimizing revenue in new payment models through improved coordination across all
points of service delivery that contribute to sustained optimum health and well-being
• Adopting new care modalities in ways that enhance access to, and use of local services
across the continuum that includes clinical care and human services
• Providing in-home health and human services
• Implementing virtual care, including 24-hour nursing care
• Improving navigation of multiple points of entry into the continuum of health and human
services, making connections to the full array of potentially beneficial services regardless
of the entry point
Overall themes of the report included the following:
• Quality access to broadband services is a major factor and potential barrier – up to 45
million American lacked availability of quality broadband services as March 2024 (FCC
Press Release on March 2014)
• Implementing innovative technology requires leveraging existing alliances of hospitals

2
• Technology to improve efficiency of clinicians is a means of coping with workforce
shortages (though far from sufficient) – ambient listening to populate health records
being a specific example
General Panel Comments
Technology can be an equalizer but often first exacerbates disparities that exist. It can reinforce
differences in access across geography. Specifically, technology that facilitates ease of access
for well-insured populations may divert encounters away from local providers who serve all
patients regardless of source of payment. That diversion could threaten financially viability of
local providers. While this phenomenon could occur in any underserved area (including parts of
urban areas), we call attention to potential unintended consequences in rural places. Intuitively,
these challenges could be addressed by a combination of assuring access to the new
technology for all residents regardless of source of payment and therefore precipitating an
adjustment to use patterns that enhances access for all, or by increasing other sources of
revenue for local providers to maintain their operations. We encourage further research and
analysist to anticipate effects, monitoring implementation of technology to identify all
consequences, and addressing unintended consequences through state and federal policies
regarding through payment (Medicare and Medicare) and insurance regulation,
Q5. Supporting private sector activities to promote innovative and effective use of AI
To promote industry-driven testing we suggest allowing government agencies to work with
private entities through cooperative research & development agreements, facilitating joint
access to and use of government databases. We also suggest developing specific criteria
focused on quality of care as AI products move from development to application. We specifically
recommend that any such regulations be based on evidence of successful application in rural
health care delivery. Analytical criteria should include affordability for healthcare organizations
and patients, utility of the innovative technology to rural healthcare organizations (this may be
function of scale and scope of services), and effects on long-term sustainability of access to
local services. Further, success should be a combination of improved health outcomes and
increased availability of services in rural communities.
Q6. AI tools with potential for greatest impact in rural settings.
As stated in reviewing themes from the NACRHHS, AI tools that enable clinicians to spend less
time in administrative tasks and increased time in patient care would impact access to quality
care in rural settings. Tools that facilitate communication between local primary care providers
and other specialty clinicians would have an impact, to support local care and to coordinate care
across the continuum through ease of patient transfer as necessary.
Q7. Administrative hurdles
Two hurdles are unique to small, independent rural healthcare organizations. First, access to
high-speed broadband capacity remains a challenge, both for some clinics and for millions of
patients in their homes. Second, the resources necessary to take full advantage of AI are
lacking, both to support equipment and software, and personnel (data analysts) to take full
advantage of new AI tools. Critically, administrative training and support will necessary to take
full advantage of all new reimbursement codes associated with new technologies and to mirror
systems used by payers such as claims review and pre-authorization.
Q9. Challenges within health care for rural patients and caregivers to address with AI
The following challenges could be addressed:

3
▪ Generating shorter wait times: AI tools that facilitate patient check-in and other pre-
encounter administrative tasks could help reduce in-clinic wait times.
▪ More efficient and effective care: Efficiency and effectiveness could be improved with
tools that enhance access to the right information at the right time during patient
encounters.
Q9. Concerns related to the adoption and use of AI in rural settings
Rural healthcare patients often face long wait times, inefficient or ineffective care and high costs
of care. AI can be leveraged and developed to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the
healthcare delivered to rural patients which will shorten wait times and lower the cost of
healthcare. However, the integration AI into the healthcare industry must be conducted through
a careful and thought-out process. AI is a new and evolving technology. It can generate
hallucinations or false results. Additionally, the use of improperly tested AI applications in the
healthcare industry may lead to poorer health outcomes for patients. Further, enhanced use of
AI in healthcare may lead to a lack of patient interactions with doctors, and accessibility
concerns for patients who are less familiar with the technology. Finally, without aid from the
government rural healthcare systems may not be able to benefit as much from the
implementation of AI in healthcare when compared to urban areas due to a lack of infrastructure
capacity.
Q 10. Research and Development
Several systematic reviews published by the NIH have concluded that the use of AI in clinical
care settings can greatly enhance clinical decision-making processes and imaging/diagnosis
processes (https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10916499/). Further studies published by
the NIH demonstrate that the use of AI in variety of clinical settings not only achieved
comparable clinical outcomes to standard care but also created measurable improvements in
QALYS and other effectiveness metrics. Additionally, these studies state that the use of AI leads
to more efficient and effective care by enhancing clinical outcomes through improved diagnostic
accuracy and personalized treatment while simultaneously reducing costs by optimizing
resource allocation and streamlining care
(https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12381244/). However, there are costs to
implementing AI. First there is a lack of published research discussing the upfront capital
expenditures and integration costs required to implement AI in a clinical healthcare setting
(https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12381244/). Second, AI is an imperfect technology
therefore, the use of AI may lead false or potentially missed diagnoses
(https://www.nih.gov/news-events/news-releases/nih-findings-shed-light-risks-benefits-
integrating-ai-into-medical-decision-making). Finally, the use of AI in the clinical setting will lead
to social costs as some employee positions will be eliminated or greatly altered by the enhanced
use of AI in the clinical setting.
Concluding comments.
The RUPRI Health Panel recommends that any innovation in AI be fully vetted with rural
clinicians and patients before being endorsed for widespread use. We suggest a “rural proofing”
that accounts for challenges of implementing new technologies in a resource-poor environments
and that tests viability for the end users – clinicians and patients.
Respectfully submitted,

4
Keith J. Mueller, PhD
Chair, RUPRI Health Panel
University of Iowa
College of Public Health
145 N Riverside Drive
Iowa City, IA 52242
Keith-mueller@uiowa.edu
www.rupri.org