Summary Problem
75% of patients do not take their meds correctly which
causes 125,000 deaths and $290 billion in added costs. The
cost of the US opioid epidemic is $2.7 trillion with 100,000
overdose deaths. 44 Veterans die of suicide/opioid overdose
every day. The 206 VA clinics that treat 6,600 veterans cannot
handle the 418,000 Veterans who need opioid use disorder
(OUD) treatment. We have OUD medications to treat OUD and
reduce the overdose death by greater than 50% but patients
cannot access them due to barriers to care. Many turn to
Mission: A connected medical device for remote
Heroin and Fentanyl which results overdose deaths, crime,
medication adherence monitoring to combat the
homelessness, and unemployment. The cycle has repeated
opioid epidemic and bring care to Veterans.
itself for the past 25 years. We need a change
Website: www.iPilldispenser.com
Location: LosAngeles, CA
Solution and Features
Founded: Sept 2019 Delaware C-Corp iPill ecosystem features:
Customers: Jails, addiction rehab behavioral • A secure dispenser prefilled with opioids or OUD meds
treatment centers, VA, Pharmacy-insurers, PBMs, • delivered directly to Vets’ homes
clinical research organizations, dental and • secure biometric controlled home storage of meds
medical practices • precise dispensing at home so only the prescription
holder can access meds at only the prescribed schedule
Regulatory: FDA Class I device 510K exempt
• remote medication adherence monitoring to detect
iPill Team:
missed daily doses in real-time
CEO John Hsu MD, Anesthesia
CFO Lacarya Scott, MS, MS, MBA, CFP, CFA • Alerts to family, friends, caregivers to remediate missed
CTO Vinay Gokhale, BS, MBA meds
Legal Peter Weinstein, PhD, JD • destruction of unused pills at 30 days or immediately if
Advisors tampered to prevent abuse,, diversion or accidental
Michele Leonhart, Former DEA Director Advisor overdose
Brian Harvey, Former FDA Director • remote vital sign monitoring via smart phone faceprint
Advisor Kathleen O’Toole Boston Police Comm. • telehealth for remote psychosocial support
Director Clinical toxicology-Sherie Hsieh, BS
Traction:
Competitive Advantage
FDA Class II breakthrough designation.
iPill is the first integrated pill dispenser delivered to the home
3 granted US patents
to monitor both patients and pills. IPill provides holistic
3 granted PCT patents UK, EU, Canada
treatment with psychosocial support of the “mind” via
telehealth and “physical” support with meds via precise home
dispensing. Because iPill destroys unused pills at 30 days or
immediately if tampered, it can be used to prevent misuse,
John Hsu MD diversion, and accidental overdoses. Further, because any
John@iPilldispenser.com shape or size of pills can be used in the iPill, it has multiple
customers and multiple revenue streams including jails, OUD
clinics, VA, Contract Research organizations (CROs) and
specialty pharmacy for HIV drugs, cancer drugs, or transplant
drugs and sedatives, tranquilizer, and stimulants. Most
significantly, iPill is avoiding reliance on commercial insurance
for revenue. Upfront funds from opioid litigation settlement,
VA, and direct payment from specialty pharma ensures
promising returns for the discerning investor.
Complete Security
No Security