February 20, 2026
Arvind R. Cavale, MD, FACE, FCPP, PCEO
President
Edward Balaban, DO, FACP, FASCO
President Elect The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary
John R. Mantione, MD
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Vice President
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Lorraine Rosamilia, MD, FAAD Washington, DC 20201
Board Chair
Renee Frank, MD Comments Submitted Electronically
Secretary
RE: Request for Information, Adoption of Artificial
Martin P. Raniowski, MA, FCPP, CAE
CEO/Executive Vice President Intelligence re Clinical Care
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
The Pennsylvania Medical Society (PAMED) appreciates the
opportunity to comment on the Request for Information
Regarding Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
400 Winding Creek Blvd.
Intelligence (AI) as Part of Clinical Care. As Pennsylvania’s
Mechanicsburg, PA 17050-1885
largest physician advocacy organization, PAMED boasts a
Membership Inquiries membership of more than 13,000 physicians. PAMED advances
(800) 228-7823 physician leadership and advocates for the ethical practice of
medicine, quality patient care, and the public’s health. As the
Tel: (800) 228-7823 voice of Pennsylvania physicians, PAMED offers these
Fax: (855) 943-3285 comments to highlight three aspects of AI adoption of particular
www.pamedsoc.org importance to physicians and patients.
Preservation of the physician-patient relationship
The primacy of the physician-patient relationship must be
maintained as AI is introduced and integrated into the process of
delivering patient care. PAMED recognizes that, as a tool, AI
possesses potential to optimize health care delivery in America.
However, it is crucial to continue to recognize AI as a tool and not
an autonomous mechanism that can attempt to provide care on
its own, or under the supervision of a non-physician or corporate
entity. The physician-led clinical care team must oversee and
direct the use of AI to bolster, not diminish, the quality of care
provided.
The failure to utilize AI in this responsible, supporting, role can
pose substantial risks to patients and the health care system, in

general. Physicians, and the teams they lead, employ uniquely human attributes such as compassion and
empathy in treating patients and making decisions in furtherance of that treatment. These attributes are used
along with the intelligence, acumen, training and experience the treatment team brings to the table. In contrast,
AI is mostly algorithm based, featuring mathematics at its core. While attempts continue to be made to
“humanize” AI, compassion and empathy, to name two of many, are uniquely human traits that AI cannot
replicate.
As important as technical and academic knowledge are to the delivery of medical care, these uniquely human
characteristics that physicians have integrated into care over the centuries are uniquely important. To attempt
to utilize AI to provide care directly is inherently a disservice to the patient. Use in such a manner would run
counter to the intent of employing AI in health care in the first place.
Concerns regarding AI trustworthiness
Accuracy and reliability of AI are two additional concerns. Current AI applications cannot be trusted to provide
unbiased and patient-specific information that can be relied on in the delivery of care. Recent media reports
include many instances where, when consulted, AI provided inaccurate and/or incomplete information both
inside and outside the health care realm. While such inaccuracies may prove to be an inconvenience or pose a
mild annoyance in many settings, it can be dangerous or deadly in the health care arena. Maintaining AI as a
tool in the physician’s armamentarium will be essential in helping to ensure that AI contributes to, instead of
detracts from, human-centered care.
Concerns regarding data privacy and security
Data privacy and security constitute other areas of concern related to the employment of AI in health care.
Protected Health Information is extremely sensitive information. Failing to properly safeguard such information
can cause significant harm. The combination of sensitive data, rapid technological advancement and the
continuing threat posed by cybercriminals creates a high-risk environment for the protection of sensitive data.
Patient safety, in this instance related to the protection of health data, cannot be compromised for the sake of
expediency. The potential negative consequences are too great.
Opportunities for use of AI in Medical Practice
AI programs have the potential to enhance a physician-led team’s ability to analyze data, optimize work flows,
respond to patient needs quicker, improve communication, and much more. Utilized judiciously, we see AI as
a method to reduce clinician burnout and strengthen the patient-physician relationship.
Pennsylvania’s physicians recognize the significant potential benefits offered by the responsible use of AI as
yet another tool the clinician can employ. Sufficient time to allow for the application of thorough and thoughtful
consideration is essential to ensure that the risks highlighted above, and other risks, are properly identified
and addressed prior to the employment of AI. The stakes are too high to pursue any course of action other
than one that employs rigorous testing, verification and controls prior to the introduction and use of AI in
clinical care.
PAMED appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the Request for Information on
the Adoption and Use of AI in Clinical Care. If you have any questions or follow up, please call (800)228-7823
and ask for PAMED leadership or email president@pamedsoc.org.
Sincerely,
opportunities in the future to make your curriculum available to PAMED’s members.
Sincerely,
Arvind R. Cavale, MD
President, Pennsylvania Medical Society

PAMED appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the Request for Information on
the Adoption and Use of AI in Clinical Care. If you have any questions or follow up, please call (800)228-7823 and
ask for PAMED leadership or email president@pamedsoc.org.
Sincerely,
Arvind R. Cavale, MD
President of the Pennsylvania Medical Society