Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Department of Health and Human Services
ATTN: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Mail Stop: 7033A, 330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
February 23, 2026
Submitted electronically: http://www.regulations.gov
Subject docket ID: (HHS-ONC-2026-0001; 90 FR 60108) HHS Health Sector RFI—Request for Information:
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
Dear Secretary Kennedy
The American Society of Radiologic Technologists represents more than 155,000 medical imaging technologists
and radiation therapists across the nation. Our mission as the premier professional association for the medical
imaging and radiation therapy community is to advance and elevate the medical imaging and radiation therapy
profession and enhance quality, safe patient care. With that mission in mind, ASRT appreciates the opportunity
to comment on the ASTP's request for information “Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence
as Part of Clinical Care.
Artificial Intelligence has the potential to elevate patient outcomes, expand access to care, and improve
efficiency. However, such implementation, especially within medical imaging and radiation therapy, must
prioritize patient safety through clear, strong national governance.
AI can be a tool that augments clinical expertise but cannot be a substitute for judgement and experience of
healthcare providers. Federal policy should ensure that AI deployment strengthens person-centered care while
creating pathways for responsible adoption.
HHS must issue clear national guidance on AI governance and accountability within health systems, particularly
for post-deployment use. Today, both clinicians and institutions face uncertainty about expectations for
oversight, documentation, monitoring, and responsibility allocation, especially in multi-vendor environments
where AI tools interact with EHRs, imaging systems, treatment planning systems, and delivery devices. This
uncertainty slows adoption and increases risk. HHS can play a critical role by articulating baseline governance
expectations applicable to both FDA-regulated AI devices and non-device clinical AI. Such guidance must affirm
that all final decision-making remains with the appropriate licensed physician, and that AI technologies cannot
override the medical imaging and radiation therapy professionals’ expertise in accordance with the physician’s
orders and clinical indications. Expectations for transparent logging of AI recommendations, continuous
performance monitoring, version and update management, and incident reporting must also be clearly
established.
In conclusion, HHS must prioritize the critical safeguards that protect patients from inappropriate and dangerous
care. Through strong, clear national governance on the reasonable adoption of AI, HHS will be able to balance
the evolving nature of new technologies with a mandate to implement federal policy that prioritizes patient care

and access. Any adoption of artificial intelligence in clinical settings must be utilized as a tool within workflow
and cannot be implemented as a replacement for clinical education and expertise.
ASRT would be honored to serve as a resource for questions related to AI in medical imaging and radiation
therapy and look forward to working with HHS as implementation frameworks are developed.
We appreciate the opportunity to provide comments. Please do not hesitate to reach out me at
jbradley@asrt.org if you have any questions.
Jason J. Bradley
Executive Vice President, Governance & Public Policy
American Society of Radiologic Technologists