1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care
and its adoption and use in clinical care?
As a PhD nurse researcher (>25+ years) who has focused on making EHRS useful and
usable to nurses in support of continuously improving EHRs and enhancing patient
outcomes –I find the EHR vendors the biggest barrier to efforts of innovators to
integrate AI into daily tools for nurses. Specifically, the big vendors (e.g., Epic) –make
it difficult for innovators to easily, simply, and cost effectively help reduce the
documentation burden and the effectiveness of clinicians. Access and integration are
cleverly blocked by vendors –who claim – “we can do this” and through their efforts in
adding band-aids to existing EHRs increase the complexity, cost, and documentation
time. Further the new additions to legacy EHRs are not adequately evaluated for the
overall impact on clinician’s workflow and patient outcomes.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS
prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS
regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to
develop or use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and
applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
Many changes recommended by the HTI-5 proposed rule will provide some relief from
the barriers EHR vendors employ to block superior innovations from the field from
getting traction . It is still possible for vendors (deep pockets) to cleverly put up barriers
that make it impossible for creative and knowledgeable innovations to see the light of
day. I say this from my personal experiences – with one example being that my team
created the nurse HANDS care planning software that was fully tested in multiple
hospitals and demonstrated the simple ability to collect interoperable standardized
nursing data in the same way across hospital systems with different vendors (much to
the surprise of many). HANDS provided many ways to support the nurse to create and
continuously update their nursing care plans with plenty of aids to support easy use.
The hospitals wanted to adopt HANDS but big vendors said they could do what we had
done – EPIC did a simple copy but their care planning system never became anything
close to what the HANDS systems provided. In fact –the system as it exists in EPIC is
not useful to the nurse. Try as we did –the vendor was successful in blocking our
efforts. The enormous expertise of our research team far exceeded the vendor
experiences including the absence of sufficient knowledge of nurses hired onto EPICs.
Epic hired nurses to sell and advocate for the EPIC system and these nurses did not
have adequate knowledge of EHRs to recognize the differences between HANDS and
Epic and further were hired solely to advocate for EPIC. Recommendation – seek to
find those pockets of experts (deep knowledge of the user group needs, AI, and
technology) like our highly qualified team at the University of Florida College of Nursing.

3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may
raise novel legal and implementation issues that challenge existing governance
and accountability structures ( e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy,
and security). What novel legal and implementation issues exist and what role, if
any, should HHS play to help address them?
Problem: LLM prompts can generate responses for which the source/s of evidence are
not always clear. If adopted—without validating the evidence this could result in errors
or adverse outcomes for patients. Overregulation of AI in the early phase however can
inappropriately limit the use of AI which in turn denies the enormous clinical benefits
that we see being generated by use. Further clinicians and patients are and will
continue to use AI (LLMs) in a variety of ways in spite of regulation to augment their
decision making – Important to find ways to make this easier and ensure safety.
Solution: Not all prompt responses by LLMs are necessarily capable yet of quickly
providing the evidence that backs the response. Some of responses are so
straightforward and face valid as to not need evidence for the clinician to weigh the
value of suggestion for the patient. Further over regulation at this point could
inappropriately slow use of AI in ways that patients and clinicians are unable to garner
the tremendous value of LLMs. Ensuring safe and effective use is key here….in the
early phases –it might be helpful for vendors to merely provide compelling rationale for
why their AI powered products are safe rather than for government to mandate the
creation of regulations for AI use that will be outdated within the year. Our bottom line
suggestions – When using LLMs to generate clinical decision support (CDS) 1) ensure
human is in the loop who decides to use/not use the CDS suggestions and is thus
responsible for all decisions (industry not liable) 2) provide a disclaimer for CDS
suggestions saying that clinician is expected to use one’s critical thinking/clinical
judgement in applying any suggestion and to seek further collaborating evidence when
in doubt. For AI in prediction models/algorithms vendor must provide evidence of the
how algorithms are computed and validated. Finally in general the government should
consider creating principles that are helpful in guiding innovators to demonstrate the
safety, strengths and limitations without resorting to stringent rules and regulations.
4. For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods
(pre- and post-deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and
human-centered evaluation methods for clinical care? Should HHS further
support these processes? If so, which mechanisms would be most impactful (
e.g., contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and/or prize competitions)?
Our team strongly encourages the use of simulation in a representative set of use cases
for which the AI (LLM) output can be evaluated for suitability against a gold standard for
fit by a team of experts prior to implementation in practice. This procedure should be

described fully by the vendor to help the potential buyer/user make decisions about use
based on their understanding of the validity and safety of the AI augmented predictive
models and LLM generated CDS suggestions. Our team has done this when reviewing
nursing care plan suggestions generated by Chat-GPT. We have also used RAGs to
constrain automatic coding of the nursing diagnoses, interventions and outcomes to the
latest version of the standardized terminologies used. Our testing has resulted in
eliminating nearly 100% of fully inappropriate suggestions. We have also noticed that
many of the LLMs now possess similar capability and might be used as a way to cross
check a response with one or more of the LLMs to further validate the quality of the
output (e.g., prompt is directed to multiple LLM models and outputs are compared).
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities ( e.g., accreditation,
certification, industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative
and effective AI use in clinical care?
AI capability is growing so rapidly that setting up rigorously developed and detailed
guidelines for accreditation, certification, industry-driven testing, and credentialing is
likely premature and if this approach is adopted progress will be substantially impeded.
Further, traditional ways of managing transformational tools will not work well with AI
and LLMs. I strongly recommend that the federal government seek to create contracts
with truly qualified experts to develop, test, and continue to improve the safe and
effective use of AI with a defined population. For example, the health care field to date
has typically focused on applying AI to medicine and then adapting use for the other
health care disciplines. This is costly and a waste of time. Nursing work and work flow
differ dramatically from medical care and thus adapting medical forms of AI to nursing is
wrong – minded and has created tools that work very poorly for nursing. Such tools end
up costing more in terms of money spent on the product, time spent trying to use the
product that does not work well, and the errors that result from the poor quality tool.
Further, most nurses do not have the knowledge and skill required to create safe and
effective tools for nursing and yet get hired and paid well to market poor tools (e.g., lots
of nurses employed by EPIC –who simply carry out the EPIC way without the skills and
knowledge to see and question the gaps that exist in that product. Since nurses front
for the product—it is unfairly assumed (in name) that the product is the best it can be
for nurses. Again – our nursing focused team at UF comprises a phenomenal group of
highly qualified nursing informaticists, engineers and technologists who possess the full
knowledge, experience and commitment to quickly transform the way nurses use EHRs
and AI in ways that reduce cost, increase care quality and patient and nurse
satisfaction.
6. Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance
and cost expectations and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI

tools would have the greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give
new insights on quality, and help reduce costs?
I don’t see tools that are actually working well in practice for nurse –because the giants
in the industry block that progress by not allowing the competition of new start-ups led
by creative groups to enter. Further the strategies the giants use to introduce new
technology are band-aid related and do not look at the holistic impact of the new bell or
whistle added to the already over complex and poorly connected technical systems.
Most importantly the strategies used to test products are poor and not focused on
creating universally useful products. Vendors hide behind the unique desires of their
individual customers when in fact if a tool is designed well for practice it likely will work
well across settings (be universally useful and interoperable). Tailoring products to the
customer nuances is merely an excuse to justify making more money and ensuring
interoperability never transpires. . Allowing this strategy to continue has resulted in little
to now progress, increased cost, and increased complexity –accompanied by
dramatically reduced quality.
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care
organizations have the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care?
What are the primary administrative hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
The IT administrators seem to hold the most power in the AI/IT decisions
(administrators defer to them) and unfortunately these folks often do not hold sufficient
clinical background nor AI knowledge to be afforded this high status. Further these IT
officers become puppets of their EHR systems (e.g., EPIC) and tend to support blocking
of key information to potential innovators – holding the party line—which is “our vendor
will make it happen!” One need only look at the progress made in the past 20 years to
know that the vendors are not making it happen. Instead their approaches are
increasing costs and complexity without a increasing quality. This must stop and a
focus on seeking ways to support innovation in the EHR space that is external to
existing EHRS. We need tools that are universally (and legitimately) useful and
interoperable for all clinicians. As I mentioned, our team created an outstanding care
planning system that nurses used effectively in the exact same way in four different
institutions (folks said this was not possible). It is the vendors who perpetuated the
myth that EHRs must be fully tailored to support the uniqueness of each of their
institutional clients. Instead of relying on IT folks who have been coopted by their
industry EHR partners (e.g., EPIC) – perpetuating little to no cost effective
improvements in our EHRs – the market must be opened to the creativity of individual
and small businesses external to the current monopolistic EHR industry to enable the
creation, testing, and implementation of AI enabled technology solutions that can
quickly transform the stagnation that exists today. .

8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel
research, and accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider
specific data types, data standards, and benchmarking tools.
A big gap in our health care system is the absence of access to interoperable nursing
data that can be used to evaluate and improve health care. This is somewhat baffling
given patients go to hospitals to receive nursing care and thus the quality and intensity
of that care have a crucial impact on patient outcomes. While attempts have been
made over the years, it has been difficult to gain the attention and resources needed to
capture nursing data and use it to improve practice. The wherewithal (technology, AI
etc) to collect and utilize nursing data cost effectively exists with groups IT nursing
reearchers/entrepreneurs at University of Florida, College of Nursing but resources are
needed to bring our work/tools to life in the clinical settings across the country and
world.
9. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see
addressed by the adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns
do patients and caregivers have related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical
care?
The challenges our team sees for patients, caregivers, and clinicians alike is that most
do not recognize or understand the extraordinary advancements that can be made with
AI when used simply and smartly. Thus education and hands-on use are needed to
help the stakeholders see the many benefits of AI and through this experience also
learn how to use AI safely.
10. Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate
the adoption of AI as part of clinical care?
HHS needs to prioritize research in which AI is used as part of an overall approach to
transforming health care. For example, a limited AI tool may work well in some areas
and not in others, thus we recommend that the HHS prioritize funding of projects that
utilize and fully test AI as part of a holistic approach (comprehensive approach)
designed to dramatically improve documentation, communication, quality of care, and
user satisfaction while reducing the cost. Open the market fully to enable innovators
and start-up to transform the stagnation - the capability exists but it must be unleashed.
a. Are there published findings about the impact of adopted AI tools and their
use clinical care?
Yes but these remain limited –continue to foster ways for those using and testing
AI to get their methods and result published /available to the public quickly
(incentivize this work and speed dissemination).

b. How does the literature approach the costs, benefits, and transfers of using
AI as part of clinical care?
To date the literature has predominantly included studies that show a positive/negative
impact of a narrowly focused feature/tool/AI on the health or care of the patient. Often
times the cost in dollars if mentioned do not include the overall cost to the entire system.
For example, ambient listening makes it easier to capture the full patient perspective in
real time but the clinician is expected to later re-read and validate the summary of the
experience and validate the output. This may or may not improve accuracy but clearly
increases documentation time of the clinician which is already at 30-40% of the nurses
time. In fact nursing documentation in US hospitals today costs >$60B a year most of
which brings little value at the point of care. Bottom line – it is crucial to find ways to
carefully but simply evaluate the overall benefits/negative impact of using AI anywhere
in the system. We support encouraging a report of the costs, benefits, and transfers to
the overall system for using AI in any part of the system.
II. Paperwork Reduction Act
In accordance with the implementing regulations of the Paperwork Reduction Act of
1995 (PRA), specifically 5 CFR 1320.3(h)(4), and OMB guidance, this general
solicitation is exempt from the PRA. Facts or opinions submitted in response to general
solicitations of comments from the public, published in the Federal Register or other
publications, regardless of the form or format thereof, provided that no person is
required to supply specific information pertaining to the commenter, other than that
necessary for self-identification, as a condition of the agency's full consideration, are not
generally considered information collections and therefore not subject to the PRA.