 Sensitivity Label: Public PC-1, PC -2, and PC-3 Resulting from lack of data sharing, the patient is often required to use multiple use case speciﬁc applications, such as ﬁtness apps, weight management apps, insurance coverage apps, and doctor messaging and appointment management apps. As a patient or caregiver, it is difficult to get all needed health information in one place related to your personal readings and even more so for those that are helping to care for. Consider easy methods to grant and manage access to health information by caregivers that improve upon the alternative of sharing passwords. Where a patient can opt -into data sharing, integration among these apps would allow features such as improved insights into wearable device readings against personalized treatment plans and improved coordination of appointments and insurance workﬂows, such as where blood pressure and heart rhythm readings would automatically be sent to your doctor for review and adjustment of your medication from across insurance covered medications and if connected to your pharmacy ﬁrst check that the readings aren’t fro m forgetting to reﬁll medications . Examples of useful features include tailored insights into personal device readings against doctor treatment plans; comparison of health readings against medications and ﬂagging indicat ors to the doctor that medicine is not being taken or is not effective; provide a single place to coordinate across doctors, pharmacies, and payer insurance companies so that treatment coverage rejections, appeals, and alternatives are all easily managed across care stakeholders. PC-4 Comments to the prior questions described several features and workﬂows that would be useful in health applications. Speciﬁcally , CMS can set examples for involvement by insurance payers such as promoting user features to assist with c are navigations like requesting authorization, pre -authorizing for treatment base on monitored health data, suggesting in-network doctors in response to monitored health data, ﬁnd and compare doctors, auto -suggest insurance coverage information in response to monitored health data and treatment information, etc. Additionally, from CMS Websites like Medicare.gov, simplifying the ability to grant and manage access to personal information will encourage user adoption to integrate their health data with their other health applications. 
 Sensitivity Label: Public PC-5 As capabilities expand, user adoption is expected to rise, leading to the development of more third -party applications that can generate revenue through advertisements and paid services. CMS can draw insights from existing application ecosystems to assist developers and safeguard consumers. Beneﬁciaries often trust Medicare and health plans when choosing tools. CMS can enhance health outcomes and reduce costs by reviewing and recommending apps that excel in popularity, accessibility, privacy and security standards, and daily health needs. To support this initiative, CMS can establish best practices and guidelines for app recommendation reviews. Additionally, CMS could implement multiple tiers of data sharing, granting access to speciﬁc CMS -supported features only to apps that have undergone a compliance review. To enable timely access to high -quality CMS and provider -generated data on patients, it is essential to connect various systems and consolidate beneﬁciaries' health information, Medicare data, and Medicare Advantage plan data into a single platform. This integration ensures comprehensive and efficient access to critical health data . PC-6 Considering current demographics, the following features will still need to be factored into any designs for new features: 1. Accessibility and adherence to S508 requirements 2. Use plain language and human- centered design to enhance usability, avoiding complex medical terms and technical jargon 3. Automate data updates extensively to ensure users always access the most current information, without needing to refresh manually 4. Streamline back -end processes, allowing users to focus on the primary use cases of the applications 5. Ability to allow caretakers to see or update information via permissions PC-8 CMS can take initiative to shape the healthcare market for sharing data by evaluating existing regulatory authority surrounding data sharing and interoperability as it applies to health applications. Data sharing across health apps will face business and policy challenges associated that create disincentives for sharing, such as monetizing data through adds and services and restricting the user’s ability to access data outside of that app for ﬁnancial reasons or from concern over violations that lead to ﬁ nancial penalties. 
 Sensitivity Label: Public Signiﬁcant value exists with integration of data from personal generated health data, such as that entered by the patient into apps like food consumption and exercise journal apps, wearable data, such as from ﬁtness devices, watches, and associated apps, sleep quality data from smart beds and rings, and data from medical equipment such as a CPAP usage and blood pressure readings. See comments in response to earlier questions in Section B1 Patient Needs. PC-9 Data sources that provide Medicare Advantage data and claims (Part C, Chronic Conditions, Preventive services, etc. ) can enable more useful digital products for Medicare beneﬁciaries and caregivers. Providing Part C data for Medicare Advantage Plans is complicated by the structure of the data being managed by the different plans and that it is stored in different systems. Data is scattered across different systems and data ﬂow between these systems are always delayed . Data sources for Blue Button 2.0 API should be evaluated to improve the API experience and show recent data . PC-12 See comments to prior questions in Section B1 - Patient Needs . PC-14 a. One of the challenges in getting patients and caregivers to sign up for and use digital identity credentials is the lack of awareness about these solutions and overall distrust in the current system. While people recognize the importance of securing their Personally Identiﬁable Information (PII) and Protected Health Information (PHI), they are uncertain about who will access their data once it is in use, making security a signiﬁcant concern. b. Wider use of digital identity credentials can boost trust through the network effect, as users share positive security experiences, encouraging broader adoption. c. Potential downsides include security risks, such as account hacking, leading to data leaks and misuse of PII and PHI by bad actors without the user's knowledge . d. Encouraging the use of credentialing service providers ( CSPs ) improves access to health information by consolidating health management into one platform. This eliminates the need for users to manage multiple accounts across different sites, reducing barriers and encouraging active engagement in health management and data access for personal use . e. CMS can take multiple actions to drive user adoption . First is taking a role in educating the public through existing communication channels on the digital 
 Sensitivity Label: Public identify concept to create awareness and build trust. Second is driving the technical solution within Medicare focusing on user experience and users getting the right outcomes. Third, CMS should regularly solicit feedback from patients and caregivers on the app after its release to ensure continuous improvement and address user needs effectively . PR-3 We view this effort as v ery important as each patient should receive a high level of care regardless of where they live . To achieve this, we recommend CMS increase involvement with Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR ) working groups , as working through the details is the best way to address data standards and limit extensions that are not documented , consistent data related to a llergies , medications , procedures , and immunizations . EHR vendors are able to continue with their proprietary data stores if standardized APIs are available for data sharing . The fundamental tenet of patient consent needs to be maintained across all APIs to ensure privacy requirements are satisﬁed. PR-4 We recommend concepts from the distributed ledger paradigm related to authorization and visibility be included in standards for digital products. This is critically important for improving the usability and capabilities of digital applications while enabling p rivacy and access controls. PR-7 Historically, CMS has employed ﬁnancial incentives to modify provider behavior. One approach is to pay a n incentive premium to providers who make their data sharable , alongside criteria for EHR vendors to meet. Alternatively, incentives could be structured around tiers of operational processes. Further research may show that a provider who actively shares information and participates in additional CMS programs is less of a fraud or patient harm risk. CMS could then incorporate these risk elements into establishing different operational levels , such as expedited claims payment. PR-9 In the past , CMS has used ﬁnancial related incentives to modify provider behavior. Given that most providers are part of one or more payer networks, enabling the use of national digital identity credentials by payers should encourage provider support by reducing their administrative burden. The incentives should focus on encouraging provider s to shar e all relevant patient data with payers through APIs , allowing patients to access their medical information at the payer level without navigating a complex net work of providers . 
 Sensitivity Label: Public PA-3 A national healthcare directory should incorporate a Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML )-like capability to issue vetted digital identity credentials to registered organizations, such as payers. This fee -based service allows payers to market to providers and patients, emphasizing that once credentials are obtained from the directory, no additi onal credentials are needed. This approach signiﬁcantly streamlines the patient's user journey. PA-4 A nationwide provider directory with FHIR endpoints and digital identity credentials could indeed offer efficiencies and potential cost savings, outside the framework of TEFCA. Operating a provider directory independently from TEFCA offers several advantages for payers seeking to enhance interoperability and streamline their operations. While TEFCA aims to establish a standardized framework for nationwide health information excha nge, an independent provider directory can still achieve interoperability by adhering to widely accepted standards like FHIR. This approach allows payers to beneﬁt from improved data exchange without necessarily being part of TEFCA. One of the key beneﬁts of independence from TEFCA is cost savings. Payers might avoid certain fees or administrative costs associated with participating in a national framework, enabling them to focus on direct investments in technology and processes that enhance interoperability and data accuracy. This ﬁnancial ﬂexibility allows payers to allocate resources more effectively to meet their speciﬁc needs. Moreover, operating outside of TEFCA provides payers with greater ﬂexibility and customization options. They can tailor the directory to align with their business strategies and member services, implementing features and integrations that cater to their unique priorities . A standalone provider directory also streamlines processes by reducing reliance on multiple intermediaries and simplifying data exchange workﬂows. This leads to more efficient operations and quicker access to provider information, ultimately beneﬁting both payers and their members. By focusing on the core needs of payers, such as provider veriﬁcation, network management, and member services, the directory can deliver targeted value without the broader scope and complexity associated with TEFCA. This concentrated approach ensures tha t payers receive the speciﬁc support they require to optimize their healthcare services and operations. 
 Sensitivity Label: Public TD-1 Revising and clarifying regulations around PII and PHI data sharing and HIPAA can remove obstacles technologists outside the health industry perceive as hindrances to market entry. By maintaining the integrity of these policies while providing education an d architecture design patterns as guidance, CMS can empower developers to navigate these complexities and foster innovation in digital health solutions. CMS can l ead by example in the creation of application features. By providing access to CMS -managed data along with guidance and illustrative use cases, CMS can inspire the developer community to explore new possibilities. Moreover, c ollaborating with trusted partners to co -sponsor groundbreaking implementations of features using CMS data will further demonstrate the potential impact and encourage active participation. Finally, CMS can build on the success of hackathons and challenges from other initiatives to engage the developer community and encourage their commitment to creating and marketing applications. These events can showcase CMS's commitment to supporting the creation and marketing of applications, fostering a dynamic environment encouraging innovation, and empower ing developers to create impactful digital health solutions. Some possible next steps are: 1. Continue targeted marketing campaigns introducing new technology or new features in their existing channels such as Medicare.gov 2. Introduce a simple mobile experience and incrementally add to the experience 3. Leverage new tech heavily used by the public, making it easier for beneﬁciaries to adopt them TD-2 Additional data includes Medicare Provider Information, p reventive & screening services, chronic conditions and Medicare advantage (Part C) claims , health plan and insurance coverage information. Data sources such as IDR, BEDAP, CXT, etc. offer highly valuable information to be included in the API. One of the primary obstacles preventing access to Medicare data sources today is the fragmentation of data across various systems, which can lead to delays in data ﬂow between these systems. For instance, Part C data related to Medicare Advantage plans is managed by different plans and stored in disparate systems, complicating seamless access and integration. 
 Sensitivity Label: Public TD-3 Digital identity credentials offer numerous beneﬁts. They enhance security through stronger authentication methods and provide convenience by allowing access with a single credential. This leads to increased efficiency and an improved user experience, along with greater data accuracy. The impact of digital identity credentials is signiﬁcant, as they strengthen cybersecurity and reduce fraud, facilitate secure data exchange, and improve interoperability. Furthermore, they streamline processes and help meet regulatory compliance requirem ents. With these beneﬁts, come a number of challenges, including privacy concerns related to data collection and use, security risks such as potential cyberattacks, and complex interoperability across various platforms. Additionally, user adoption can be hinder ed by issues of trust and usability, while regulatory compliance demands add another layer of complexity. The OpenID Connect Protocol plays a crucial role in this ecosystem by standardizing authentication, thereby enhancing security. It simpliﬁes access through single sign -on, which improves user trust and experience. Although updates are necessary for widesp read adoption, the protocol offers long -term beneﬁts that contribute to a more secure and efficient digital identity landscape. TD-4 CMS has an opportunity to promote open, standards -based APIs by implementing policies and regulations, providing funding and incentives, and conducting educational campaigns. Encouraging adoption can be achieved through collaboration with industry stakeholders, providing technical support, and establishing certiﬁcation programs. Key strategies also include ensuring integration with existing systems, monitoring usage, and foste ring innovation through hackathons and competitions. Together, these efforts aim to enhance interoperability, data exchange, and innovation in healthcare by creating a supportive ecosystem for open APIs. TD-5 A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints could signiﬁcantly improve access to health information for patients, providers, and payers in several ways: For Patients: 
 Sensitivity Label: Public • Simpliﬁed Provider Search: Patients could easily ﬁnd and connect with healthcare providers who have interoperable systems, ensuring their health information is readily accessible and transferable. • Enhanced Care Coordination: Patients would beneﬁt from seamless data sharing between providers, leading to more coordinated and efficient care. For Providers: • Streamlined Data Exchange: Providers could quickly identify and connect with other providers' systems using FHIR endpoints, facilitating real -time data exchange and reducing administrative burdens. • Improved Referral Processes: Providers could efficiently refer patients to specialists or other services, with conﬁdence that patient data will be accurately and promptly shared. For Payers: • Efficient Network Management: Payers could manage their provider networks more effectively, ensuring that they work with providers who have the capability to exchange data seamlessly. • Accurate Data for Decision -Making: Access to up -to-date provider information would support better decision -making and improve care management strategies. TD-9 Prioritizing API -enabled capabilities enhances interoperability and patient access, aligning with the 21st Century Cures Act and ONC's Cures Act Final Rule, which mandates patient access to health information via secure, standards -based APIs like HL7 and F HIR. API- focused certiﬁcation ensures vendors develop infrastructure for real -time data access and cross -platform interoperability, reducing CMS's reliance on costly priority data exchange mechanisms. We recommend CMS align API certiﬁcation with TEFCA and CMS interoperability rules for a cohesive strategy. Examples include: • A FHIR enabled API allows a CMS beneﬁciary to seamlessly access their Blue Button 2.0 data in third -party apps without needing EHR System integration o Encourages Modularity and Innovation: Enables modular architecture, allowing stakeholders to deploy lightweight, specialized, component rather than overhauling or upgrading ensure EHR systems. This will reduce technical debt and opens the ecosystem to innovative health apps, including populati on health tools, clinical decisions, support, and remote patient monitoring systems 
 Sensitivity Label: Public • Instead of requiring full software replacement, providers and integrators can plug in apps that read/write to APIs o Improves Scalability for Federal Programs : Modular API- driven certiﬁcation enables more scalable data exchanges across programs such as Medicare, FFS, MIPs, and claims. API based certiﬁcations facilitate real -time ingestion and analytics, improving oversight, risk, and beneﬁciary outcomes without depending on inﬂexible software implementation. • Quality Reporting can be improved through APIs in QPP where manual uploads are the method of data exchange. The absence of modernized architecture and infrastructure within shared systems necessitates the use of large, bulky ﬂat ﬁles for communication, which not only impedes policy integration and agility but also results in high maintenance costs. Each test o r enhancement becomes a costly endeavor requiring coordination of multiple downstream systems, further stiﬂing innovation and efficiency. o Reduces reliance on proprietary vendor systems: The single most costly expenditure in the CMS ecosystem is the reliance on preoperatory vendor systems, proprietor systems create an agency dependency and inhibits extendibility and shits to new more modern technology. • Medicare Provider Enrollment is administered by Medicare Administrative Contractors, and CMS's dependency on each of the 7 MACs internal systems is a large portion of the estimated $1.3B spend on operations. CMS could make policy changes that e xpand Certiﬁcation Scope to cover the full patient record. Current certiﬁcation focuses on largely discrete data to align with USCDI. To ensure comprehensive coverage, certiﬁcations should verify APIs can retrieve, transmit, and make ingestible complete records, including free -text notes such as progress notes, discharge summaries, scanned or faxed records, diagnostic images, patient -generated data, and other metadata. CMS should update ONC Certiﬁcation criteria for health IT found in 45 CFR 170.315 to require access to full EHI, not just structured data. Aligning API Certiﬁcations with USCD+ and EHI Expert requirements will ensure APIs can handle non-USCDI clinical data. Implemen t the FHIR document reference , binary, and observation resources to enable retrieval of scanned images, free -text, and other non -discrete data points. Along with these points, we recommend: • Align ment with TEFCA and Federal Exchange Standards . Mandate that TEFCA participants and certiﬁed health IT support FHIR -based access to all EHI data and 
 Sensitivity Label: Public ensure consistency with FHIR US core, IHE XDS -Meta data, and DirectTrust protocols for document -level exchange • Encourage the u se of Public Available implementation Guides . ONC should require vendors to use and reference standardized implementation guides that support full access to patient records (i.e., HL7 Smart on FHIR IG, HL7 Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange (CDex) etc.) • Add APIs address ing value -based reimbursement including data standards quality metrics. This include s systems like MIPS and Medicare Advantage so that providers are rewarded for producing complete and timely clinical data in reposes to API queries . For e xample , a provider group that enables real time API access to encounter data, imaging, lab results, and care plans using FHIR and Da Vinci IGs - receive higher scores in MIPS or shared bonuses in contracts • Require API Certiﬁcation in Conditions of Participation (COP). CMS should revise the Medicare COPs or Conditions for Coverage (CfCs) to mandate implementation of FHIR based APIs, have real time access to USCDI and EHI with expanded provider data like free text notes, faxed images, and lab results, and use of standardi zed IGs like Smart on FHIR and Da Vinci Codex • Offer technical and implementation assistance . Contract Experts and SMEs to support the transition and adoption of APIs. Create more model templates, offer funding, and create competitive contracts to ensure appropriate support is achieved. • Have providers expose standardized patient -level clinical data directly to CMS systems like MIPs. This will eliminate the cumbersome QRDA ﬁles requirement in MIPs and instead implement Scheduled FHIR based API with standardized data. • Bulk data access enables continuous retrieval of real time data rather than intermittent exchange of data with delay. Providers can use this to improve quality of care, including understanding gaps in care and receiving quick feedback loops. • CMS can harmonize reporting requirements across programs like MIPS ACO and Hospital IQR by pulling data once from an API and using it across systems rather than providers being burdened to report data differently for each system. TD-12 CMS has stated they are looking for ways to reduce provider burden. Many payers have provider networks. Additionally , under TEFCA, Qualiﬁed Health Insurance Networks (QHIN) contain provider information. In both cases , the provider data is validated and very likely certiﬁed by ONC in terms of interoperability capabilities. By endorsing these non -CMS data sources and networks and subsequently leveraging these, the provider information contained in these networks, either in a distributed or replicated manner , providers will 
 Sensitivity Label: Public have less occurrences of their data that needs to be updated , thus reducing provider burden . TD-13 Many providers and payers provide patient portals, but they are browser based and designed as websites , each containing information speciﬁc to that organization. This approach hinders patients from viewing all their health information in one centralized location. Beyond patient portals, many providers and payers have registered interoperability endpoints for use in the API paradigm. These APIs , intended for provider -to- provider , provider -to-payer , and payer -to-payer interoperability , rely on other organization's systems to aggregate the data from each individual's site or set of endpoints. For patients, health apps , usually installed on a mobile device, interoperate with the organization's patient rel ated APIs. The health app market is fragmented , often serving as an extension of a hospital or doctor office system suite. Currently, the market focuses on providing doctor s with necessary patient information from multiple sources. However, a uniﬁed platform for patient s to access all their health information has yet to emerge, as patients are generally unwilling to pay for such apps . Consequently , the incentive to invest in apps offering this service is limited. This presents an ideal opportunity for CMS to lead the development an app , as part of Medicare or ACA , that consolidates the patient data into a single, accessible platform. TD-15 Bulk FHIR APIs enhance healthcare use cases by enabling efficient data aggregation and standardized exchange, improving data ﬂow. In population health management, they aggregate large patient datasets to identify at-risk populations. For research and anal ytics, they provide access to extensive datasets for studying treatment effectiveness and disease patterns. These APIs streamline quality reporting and compliance, simplify data extraction, and enhance care coordination by offering comprehensive patient insights across encounters. They improve data ﬂow through scalability, reduced latency, and resource efficiency, handling large data volumes efficiently and optimizing transfers. Overall, bulk FHIR APIs lead to better population health management, research, care coordination, and data ﬂow within the healthcare ecosystem. While bulk FHIR APIs provide signiﬁcant beneﬁts for data exchange and analysis, they also present challenges related to data privacy and security, technical complexity, data quality, regulatory compliance, performance, and cost. Handling large volumes of sensitive health data increases the risk of breaches and requires complex access controls. Organizations may face infrastructure and integration challenges, particularly with legacy systems, and must ensure data quality to avoid inconsistencies. Complianc e with regulations such as 
 Sensitivity Label: Public HIPAA adds to the administrative burden, while potential latency and resource consumption can impact performance and increase costs. To maximize the beneﬁts of bulk FHIR APIs, organizations must carefully plan and implement strategies to address these cha llenges. TD-16 We r ecommend CMS think in terms of outcomes rather than implementation. The focus should be on making the infrastructure ubiquitous, while healthcare professionals concentrate on the functionality of the user journey . An e xample would be a provider ﬁnding the complete health record for a patient without having to know how to obtain that information. The goal is to ensure the user experience is loosely coupled with the implementation. A virtualized data environment, featuring an abstraction layer between functionality and data, supports this goal. TD-19 There are currently many challenges related to price transparency . Other than a small number of managed care offerings or procedure bundles , there is no real underst anding of costs until bills arrive. This is due to a variety of reasons including ambiguous pricing, lack of mandates, and many third -party entities involved in care delivery . Many providers fail to post all standard charges for a patient, resulting in incomplete data disclosure. We recommend updating CMS Websites to have a cost estimator tool to aggregate payer data in one place. T his would help patients search for procedures, understand procedures , associated pricing , and patient care planning. As a next step, add interoperability capabilities to integrate EHRs and claim information to provide a total picture of costs. VB-2 Patient groups such as veterans often face more complex service -related health conditions, including environmental exposures, combat injuries, and emotional traumas, compared to civilian peers. Integrating these groups into APMs can be challenging, making them ideal candidates for AI augmentation. AI agents trained with language models ﬂuent in military health concerns would facilitate the inclusion of these populations more effectively. VB-15 As the CMS -0057 -F ﬁnal rule requires payers that perform Medicare Advantage, Medicaid, and CHIP plans to make provider directory information available through standards -based APIs , we recommend CMS promote additional use cases for this directory, such as accessing patient data across providers. This aligns with the patient journey, as patients 
 Sensitivity Label: Public typically view their medical history by provider and condition. Allowing patients to select providers for data retrieval creates a streamlined experience. This is true for patient and treatment data, but not for claims data. For claims data, a similar national directory of healthcare payers would be appropriate for a similar user journey to get the claim data. Combining the two together into a national heal th care hub would be a lofty goal that could ultimately revolutionize the patient experience 