Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, Maryland 21244
June 16, 2025
Re: CMS-0042-NC-Request for Information; Health Technology
Dear Dr. Oz:
On behalf of the Partnership for Part D Access (the Partnership), thank you for the
opportunity to respond to this information request. As you may know, the Partnership
includes patient groups, advocacy organizations, and members of the private sector who
work in coalition to ensure access to the full range of medications under Medicare Part D-
particularly those under Medicare’s “six protected classes” (6PC) policy.
Medicare’s 6PC policy requires Part D plans to cover “all or substantially all” drugs in each
of the following six classes: immunosuppressants, antidepressants, antipsychotics,
anticonvulsants, antineoplastics, and antiretrovirals. These six classes represent
conditions where medication choice and access are critical to outcomes; drugs within
these classes are not easily interchangeable. The 6PC policy protects patients, ensuring
they can access the specific drug needed to treat their condition, as determined by their
provider. 6PC policy has resulted in increased and needed access to protected medicines1
and contributed to meaningful gains for patients, including increased life expectancy for
people living with HIV.2 In addition, independent third-party analyses have frequently
concluded that limiting beneficiary access to vital medications covered by the 6PC policy
will ultimately drive higher costs in Medicare Parts A and B and Medicaid by increasing the
need for inpatient or emergency care due to the destabilization of patients’ conditions.
Because Part D plans do retain flexibility regarding how 6PC drugs are placed on their
formularies and which types of utilization management they will apply to individual
medications, it is especially important for patients to have the ability to compare plan
offerings in order to choose their best option for coverage depending on their individual
needs. Typically, these decisions are aided by online tools like CMS Plan Finder and other
Medicare specific information accessible through the internet.

Patients rely on these tools to do as CMS Chief of Staff and Deputy Administrator
Stephanie Carlton suggested in her comments about this RFI: to “make informed choices,
manage chronic conditions, and stay healthy.” We agree with CMS that the government
must not be a barrier to patients, but should be a catalyst that propels patients forward.
Unfortunately, we have consistently heard from our members that the tools patients have
at their disposal to assist with decision-making during open enrollment are not user
friendly. Specifically, we are concerned that Plan Finder is difficult to use for many patients.
We strongly encourage CMS to update Plan Finder to increase transparency around 6PC
drug coverage by plan to help beneficiaries access necessary information as they choose
their plan(s). Specifically, we recommend that patients receive information on the
utilization management employed on covered 6PC drugs, including prior authorization,
step therapy, or high cost tiering. This could be offered through pop up windows or other
explainers, the way the site currently allows you to learn more about cost variation by
pharmacy, or the Medicare Prescription Payment Plan through a link and pop-up (see
below for examples from medicare.gov/plan-compare.
We would be glad to discuss these suggestions more in depth.
Again, thank you for your leadership in making government, and Medicare, more readily
accessible to the American people.
Sincerely,
Reyna Taylor
Executive Director
The Partnership for Part D Access