February 23, 2026
The Honorable Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Mary E. Switzer Building
330 C Street, SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as part of
Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane:
Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon) appreciates the opportunity to comment on opportunities to accelerate the
use of artificial intelligence (AI) to improve care delivery, empower individuals, and save lives. We
support the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology (ASTP/ONC) mission to encourage the safe adoption of AI in clinical care.
Over the last 25 years, Amazon has developed and deployed state-of-the-art AI and machine learning
models to power customer experiences. This includes customer-facing services and internal operations
that personalize the shopping experience on Amazon.com, the AI-powered robots that optimize order
fulfillment in our warehouses, and Amazon Web Services (AWS) building generative AI capabilities that
transform customer experiences in industries across the globe.
In healthcare, AI is increasingly driving the ability for patients, physicians, and scientists to use the
information they have to improve health outcomes. Through use of AI, patients can get insights early to
make decisions on where and how to get care; healthcare providers can spend more time directly caring
for their patients—not behind a monitor; and scientists can surface insights on the root causes of
disease to then develop new innovations to save and improve lives.
Amazon Pharmacy and One Medical are leveraging AI to transform healthcare delivery, reduce
administrative burden, and make getting health care easier for patients. Amazon Pharmacy uses AI to
process prescriptions 90% faster by automatically structuring prescription data, predicting medication
inventory needs, providing real-time price estimates without manual insurance entry, and enhancing
customer support through AI-powered documentation analysis. Beyond operational efficiency, AI-
powered clinical decision support can improve patient safety by identifying potential adverse drug
interactions, predicting patient deterioration for early intervention, and accelerating diagnosis of time-
critical conditions through AI-enhanced imaging triage.
One Medical is deploying generative AI to handle routine administrative tasks such as reviewing health
records, identifying care gaps, routing messages, and automating workflows—giving providers more
time to focus on patient care rather than paperwork. For patients, One Medical is using AI to make
accessing health care even simpler, more highly personalized, and more actionable through Health AI
that can answer health questions, book appointments, and help manage medications. One Medical’s
Health AI assistant provides 24/7 personalized health guidance, can explain lab results, book

appointments, and manage medications with HIPAA-compliant security. Health AI was developed with
One Medical providers providing clinical guidance across the entire development lifecycle, embedding
safety principles from conception through launch. We are committed to using advanced technology to
make healthcare more personal, accessible, and human-centered while respecting patient privacy and
enhancing clinical decision-making.
We are dedicated to making our customers’ and patients’ lives better while also establishing and
implementing the necessary safeguards to protect them. Amazon has a long-standing track record of
protecting customer data. For example, One Medical and Amazon Pharmacy protect protected health
information (PHI) with HIPAA-compliant privacy and security practices to keep information safe and
secure. All our services go through rigorous security testing, and we maintain strict administrative,
physical, and technical safeguards to protect our systems and customer information, such as through
encryption technology and strict controls over who can access records.
Through AWS, we support healthcare providers, insurers, electronic health record (EHR) vendors, and
other organizations to leverage AI to generate efficiencies and improve patient outcomes. AWS offers
purpose-built healthcare AI services, including HealthScribe to support clinical documentation, Health
Lake to enable data interoperability, and HealthImaging for faster analytics of medical images. AWS also
recently announced agentic AI capabilities in Amazon Connect—which automates routine patient
interactions like appointment scheduling that represent 50% of call volume. We also developed an
open-source Healthcare and Life Sciences Agentic AI toolkit, which includes starter agents built on
Amazon Bedrock. And, we recently released Amazon Nova Forge, which empowers organizations to
build custom frontier AI models tailored to their specific needs while maintaining data privacy.
We encourage ASTP/ONC to take several steps to further accelerate the benefits of AI adoption in care
and to work with innovation-forward states testing novel AI technologies within their regulatory
jurisdictions.
Considerations for Oversight of AI/ML in Healthcare
When evaluating the role of government in overseeing the use of AI/ML in healthcare, we encourage
you to consider several factors prior to the development of any new policies.
First, ASTP/ONC should consider whether the robust policies already in place have gaps unique to AI. For
example, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is already well suited with its existing authorities to
oversee the use of AI for regulated products, including clinical decision support tools that meet the
definition of medical devices. In fact, as of late 2025, FDA had already cleared or approved more than
1350 devices with AI/ML components—dating back to 1995. ASTP/ONC should only focus new policies
on AI-specific gaps in existing authorities. We also caution that new policies that duplicate existing
authorities can raise complications and burdens that do not generate any further risk mitigation or
patient care benefits. Instead, duplicative regulation may slow deployment of health technologies that
could improve the quality of care. Therefore, we recommend ASTP/ONC publish a formal mapping of
existing regulations to AI use cases in clinical care, identifying only those gaps that require new policy
intervention. This would prevent duplicative requirements that could delay deployment of beneficial
technologies.
Second, Amazon supports a risk-based approach to AI/ML oversight and appropriate transparency for
patients and clinicians. Recognizing that AI applications are heterogenous, a focus on high-risk activity
helps to ensure that potential harms are addressed without stifling innovation or impeding access to
Page 2 of 4

benefits from low-risk uses of AI. In the healthcare context, risk-based approaches are already widely
adopted—with policies varying based on the specific use cases and effect of the technology on patient
care (e.g., as medical devices are already regulated based on risk). We appreciate ASTP/ONC’s recent
proposed rule that would rescind the Decision Support Intervention transparency requirements as they
required disclosures of source attribute information regardless of the risk associated with the
technology.
Third, when promoting transparency to support patient and clinician trust in AI-based tools, we
encourage ASTP/ONC to first evaluate the methods that AI developers already use to disclose
information on models—such as AWS AI Service Cards that provide appropriate disclosure about model
capabilities, limitations, and intended uses. When fostering transparency, we caution against the
disclosure of proprietary information, such as training data, training recipes, or model architecture,
which are confidential commercial secrets with significant competitive value. If regulators require model
developers to disclose information about such data, it may foreclose the developer’s ability to claim
trade secret protection under the law. These concerns are only amplified if organizations seek to use
larger models, like foundation models, which are trained on a central corpus of internet scale data and
are intended to be used by many customers across many use cases. Training data disclosure
requirements are therefore impractical and not well suited to evaluating appropriateness for use.
Training datasets vary based on many factors, including size, demographic makeup (the number and
type of groups), quality (amount of confounding variation, fit for purpose), the types and quality of
labeling, and other factors. Simply because a model has been trained on certain data does not mean it
will perform as needed in a specific use case.
Finally, we encourage ASTP/ONC to align with international standards—many of which are currently in
development—to provide consistency, clarity, and thoroughness to support the effective and safe
development and use of AI in healthcare. For example, ISO 42001 is a management system standard
that provides guidelines for managing AI systems within organizations. This standard emphasizes a
commitment to responsible AI practices, encouraging organizations to adopt controls specific to their AI
systems, fostering global interoperability, and setting a foundation for the development and
deployment of responsible AI. Amazon is committed to the responsible development of AI, as
demonstrated by AWS being the first major cloud service provider to announce ISO 42001 accredited
certification for several of its services.
Apply new policies to applications, not specific technologies
Many uses of AI provide enhancements to existing healthcare workflows and processes. For example,
clinicians already use diverse approaches to document care, including via: direct entry by clinicians;
template-based documentation tools; in-room medical scribes; remote scribes; and transcription
technologies based on AI. Each approach carries different risks and benefits; applying regulatory
requirements on only one of those modes could impede innovation and adoption.
Instead, when evaluating policy guidance or regulations on an aspect of clinical care, ASTP/ONC should
consider existing quality and safety requirements applicable to that use case. Taking an approach
grounded in the use case—rather than specific tools, such as AI—would avoid singling-out certain
technologies and stifle innovation in their development and application.
Focus on testing in deployed settings
As mentioned above, regulatory focus on training data does not provide actionable information for
patients, clinicians, and deployers. Especially for high-risk healthcare use cases, rather than focusing on
Page 3 of 4

training data, testing AI-based tools in the intended environment with data reflecting the intended
population is the scientifically appropriate and industry-standard mechanism that provides the best
indication of performance.
There are some parallels between AI and EHR systems. With EHRs, the performance and safe use of the
system can vary based on differences in users, patient populations, the prevalence of other
technologies, workflows, and many other factors. That’s why, with EHRs, testing in the intended
environment is a core component of evaluating the safety and usability of the system.
The same applies with AI, where deployers—such as a health system—should test AI-based technologies
in their environments to evaluate whether the tool works appropriately and—where needed—apply risk
mitigations. ASTP/ONC should consider guidance to health systems on how to assess the performance of
technologies in their intended settings, much like how the agency led the development of the Safety
Assurance Factors for Electronic Health Record Resilience (SAFER) Guides for evaluation of EHR
performance in healthcare organizations.
Encourage greater data interoperability to improve care, support AI
EHR systems, claims databases, and other technologies increasingly house and make available
information to empower patients and improve care. When coupled with AI, this information can help:
identify treatments for unmet needs; equip patients and clinicians with personalized recommendations
through decision support tools; and otherwise generate insights to better understand the safety and
quality of care.
Yet, the data currently accessible via standard application programming interfaces (APIs) is not yet fully
sufficient to support many improvements to the patient experience and enhanced care. For example,
the versions of the US Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) currently required for support by certified
EHRs lacks access to cancer care data, genomic data elements links to download medical images—
including X-Rays and MRI scans. API-based access to these data elements, when used with AI-based
technologies, can enable enhanced patient-specific guidance that factors in each individual’s unique
clinical situation. AI integration with EHR systems can transform clinical workflows by providing real-
time decision support, automating documentation, and enabling seamless data exchange through FHIR-
based APIs. AWS HealthLake provides infrastructure for organizations to meet ASTP/ONC and CMS
interoperability requirements. We encourage ASTP/ONC to make these—and other—data elements
available via standard APIs to accelerate the utility of AI-powered tools in clinical care.
Relatedly, with appropriate patient authorization and in compliance with HIPAA, healthcare
organizations have sought to use protected health information (PHI) to develop AI tools to support the
treatment, payment, and operations of facilities. Health systems have also sought to use de-identified
data to improve the capabilities of AI-based technologies, however, the de-identification of data may
make the information less useful. Through AWS Clean Rooms, healthcare organizations can securely
analyze and collaborate on their collective datasets—without sharing or copying one another’s
underlying data. This technology, when coupled with AI, can further enable the development of health-
specific technologies without disclosure of the underlying, sensitive data. This service can allow
organizations to discover, evaluate, and access patient cohort data in a privacy-preserving manner and
without any data movement.
Thank you for considering our recommendations, and we look forward to serving as a resource to ASTP
on accelerating the ability for AI to improve patient care.
Page 4 of 4