Health Technology Ecosystem : Issues facing health care today : Fractured healthcare information results in inefficiencies and frustration for everyone . I would pro pose a patient -centric healthcare system. Meaning, the pa tient holds all the data from every healthcare resource. The information automatically populates their “chart ,” which is held in a private “vault .” They have access to their records and can give permission to other caregivers, providers, etc . To be successful, the process MUST be automat ed and not left to an individual to keep his/her information up to date. Anything less will result in the same haphazard system we have now. Patient -centric healthcare system: The patient perspective • All data would seamlessly flow into the “vault ” from every health -related source. o Primary and specialty clinics, hospitals, care centers of all kinds, pharmacies, dentists, allied health arenas (PT, OT, ST) , chiropractic, health departments, etc. o Why is this important? ▪ To abolish fractured health care and give the patient /caregiver control ▪ To decrease the redundancy of services, lower cost, and pain/inconvenience to the patient. (i.e., repeated lab draws and radiology studies) o The process would not rely on an individual or entity to remember to send the data . o With AI capabilities, data can be summarized in an understandable format for the patient/caregiver . The provider perspective (primary care p rovider , specialist s): • Providers could access AI-generated up-to-date information , summarized to their needs . o Why is this important? ▪ Efficiencies reducing costs and frustration • New Patient : Reduc e the onboarding time of a new patient by accessing the “vault” information and auto -populating the provider's electronic medical record . o Decreas e administ rative time a nd cost o AI-generated succinct information , giving providers back valuable time. • Established patients: Providers request an AI-generated summary of all relevant data since the last encounter , and the data would auto-populate the ir electronic medical record directly. ▪ At the end of the encounter , the signed document would immediately appear in the patient ’s “vault .” Follow -up 
information , i.e., results , would also automatically populate the patient ’s “vault.” Caregivers/ guardia ns/care facilities perspective : • Patient needs may require others to advocate for them : children, people with rare and complex conditions. The frustration of fractured healthcare is a major issue and results in increased risk to the patient , especially during transitions in care . o Care giver/guardian ▪ Ability to monitor patient health status ▪ Ability to upload important home information to share with providers • Glucose /blood pressure/ weight • Documentation of symptoms ▪ Allow research facilit ies de -identified access for new and ongoing research programs. ▪ Allow care management organizations such a s home health agencies, Hospice , and palliative care to follow patient data. ▪ Quality and efficiency (Value -based care). If healthcare were more efficient and effective • Self-insured businesses/insurance companies benefit • CMS/Medicaid benefits Keys to success: Timely, actionable , accurate data at the finge rtips of all concerned. About me: After twenty -five years as a n internist pr actic ing primary care medicine , acting as the physician lead in the conversion to electronic medical records, acting as the physician lead in quality improvement (Patient -Centered Medical Ho me) and several Medicare sponsored pilot initiatives, I’ve seen the need, felt the frustration and can only hope this new CMS initiative will make a meaningful difference. 