February 23, 2026
Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and the Office of the National Coordinator for
Health Information Technology
Attention: Request for Information: HHS Health Sector AI RFI, Mary E. Switzer Building,
Mail
Stop: 7033A
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: Comment to HHS Health Sector AI RFI RIN 0955-AA13
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and the Office of the National Coordinator for
Health Information Technology:
As a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist for 36 years, I appreciate the opportunity
to provide a response to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Request
for Information regarding Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
part of Clinical Care.
Regarding regulation, there is cause for great concern related to the privacy, efficacy,
and safety of AI in healthcare. There is no current federal regulation of AI in healthcare.
Regulation is essential, given the federal government’s obligation to protect the public.
This is not something that can be left to the companies producing and selling these
products or to individual states, which could result in a patchwork of incompatible
regulations. Our government has decided that regulation and oversight are essential in
healthcare to ensure safety and efficacy. For example, regulation and appropriate
enforcement are important aspects of new products and treatments through the FDA.
We regulate healthcare clinicians through licensing requirements. We should not accept
anything less with AI and should set the bar higher for unproven technology. AI chatbots
are not HIPAA compliant, therefore user/patient privacy is not protected as mandated by
federal law in all healthcare industries and settings. Privacy and confidentiality are
cornerstones of effective psychotherapy, and the absence of these protections in the
use of AI Chatbots demands correction.
Regarding research and development: Due to the novelty of this technology, there is not
yet
enough data available to support efficacy and/or safety. Large Language Models (LLMs)
are especially prone to “hallucinations,” with documented cases involving irrevocable
harm of the worst kind. AI LLMs have encouraged vulnerable people struggling with
suicide to take suicidal action or provided them with information about the heights of
bridges or buildings from which to jump. This is unacceptably risky Chatbot behavior
that literally threatens lives. AI products must be thoroughly researched and tested, as
is any new psychotherapy protocol or pharmaceutical, to measure effectiveness,
dropout rates, remission rates, etc.

Importantly, evaluation, assessment, safety and outcome research should be provided
by a
separate, independent group of researchers to minimize the conflict of interest inherent
if
corporations that develop these products also supply the evaluation and “science.”
Regarding AI instruments approximating psychotherapy, it’s desirable that the products
advance recovery, defined by SAMHSA as a process over time leading to a self-
directed life. Is insufficient to focus only on symptom management or reduction. HHS
advocacy to accelerate use of AI must follow and be linked to development of an
evidence
base demonstrating safety and efficacy.
While there are legitimate concerns related to access to mental health care, there are
grave risks associated with the use of AI to provide clinical care in the behavioral
healthcare industry, especially without rigorous clinical trials, regulation, and robust
oversight. At a minimum, HHS should not accelerate the adoption of AI until the FDA
completes its evaluations of AI as medical devices. Given the FDA’s findings that well
over 10,000 such applications are already widely available to consumers without
appropriate premarket performance evaluations, risk management endeavors, or post-
market evaluations, HHS must focus on developing research demonstrating safety and
efficacy before accelerating implementation.
In study after study over many years, relationship is the main predictor of outcome in
psychotherapy. AI is not, in fact, a human relationship, thus it is seriously limited as a
potential clinical treatment tool. Much more study and assessment over longer periods
of time are necessary. At this point, it is unclear how AI can best be used, whether as a
support for psychotherapists, a replacement for psychotherapists, or a tool more tightly
focused on insurance processing and administrative issues.
AI Medical devices are not ready for accelerated adoption and deployment without
appropriate research or enforceable regulation. Even though LLMs are currently being
used by millions of people, this adoption by the public is far ahead of the essential
science
demonstrating privacy, safety, and efficacy. Hence, regulation is essential to reduce the
risk of harm to consumers, ensure that the public has access to safe and effective
clinical care, hold corporations accountable for the products they develop and sell, and
support uniform national standards for AI Chatbots.
Sincerely,
Barbara Petterson
Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist
Registered Art Therapist