 RFI Responses to CMS-0042-NC, Health Technology Ecosystem Submitted via Electronic Delivery to Regulations.gov Executive Summary We understand this RFI seeks to leverage health technology and data interoperability to improve care quality and experience while reducing costs. As the developer of Ginkgo Active, we are proud to say we have built a next-generation mobile platform ready to engage millions, even billions of aging population. Ginkgo Active is a mobile APP built to reduce trillion dollars of global healthcare burdens caused by chronic conditions and functional decline for all healthcare payers. It is available in the Apple app store with a full experience of users for healthcare payers to evaluate its features and functions in hitting this goal. Here is a 3-minute video to show how this can make a global headline in health innovation in 3 to 6 months. It is ready to make a real difference, with no need to make any changes to the current operational system in healthcare. NO PRECISION, NO PREVENTION Ginkgo Active Aligns with U.S. National Health Initiatives Ginkgo Active cross-references over 170,000 validated health rules to deliver AI-powered precision preventive training at scale, aligning closely with national initiatives such as Make America Healthy Again (MAHA), Healthy People 2030, and CMMI’s strategy to improve population health. 1. Enhancing Preventive Care Access ○ Objective : Increase the proportion of people who get recommended and evidence-based preventive health care services. ○ Ginkgo Active's Contribution : all recommendations Ginkgo Active delivered are based on the validated health rules from prevailing authoritative Guidelines, such as American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) guidelines for exercise testing and prescription. We can deliver this level of services to 100% of the population. 2. Reducing Chronic Disease Burden ○ Objective : Help people avoid illness and optimally manage chronic disease. ○ Ginkgo Active's Contribution : Our platform includes health insights for 18 chronic condition risk factors like hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular and osteoporosis, through tailored exercise programs, thereby helping to prevent or delay the onset of chronic diseases. 1 
 3. Addressing Health Disparities ○ Objective : Eliminate health disparities and provide equality of care ○ Ginkgo Active's Contribution : our team has made full efforts to lower the bars of getting top prevention service, no need to invest into any equipment, wearable devices to start. Even the Wifi is not full time required to lower the users’ costs. We ensure equitable access to preventive health services across diverse populations, especially those underserved communities due to age, affordability or geographic location. 4. Promoting Physical Activity ○ Objective : Increase the proportion of adults who meet current minimum guidelines for aerobic physical activity and muscle-strengthening activity. ○ Ginkgo Active's Contribution : Each of our training prescriptions is in full compliance of WHO and CDC guidelines, including multicomponent exercises for balance, cardio and strength training. It is guided with the right dosage, intensity and frequency fitting in each individual’s fitness level. It is the easiest enabling platform for physical activity. Ginkgo Active is for health care payers to achieve: ● Equality – The same expert-level care, delivered to every person, regardless of geography, income, or mobility. ● Precision – No generic programs. Every exercise prescription is tailored to each individual’s needs, risks, and lifestyle. ● Sustainability – No construction, no equipment, no commute. A green model for modern public health. ● Adaptability – Evolving intelligence that reflects the newest medical insights, updated daily. References: ● CDC Fact Sheet: Health and Economic Costs of Chronic Conditions ● The White House Statement of FY2026 Budget ● CMMI 2025 Strategy to Make America Healthy Again ● Healthy People 2030’s Objective on Preventive Care ● Healthy People 2030’s Objective on Reducing Chronic Kidney Disease Ginkgo Health, Inc. Founded in 2019 in Vancouver, Canada, in collaboration with NextStep Robotics (Maryland, USA) Website: https://ginkgo.health/ 2 