 211 East Chicago Avenue, Suite 1 600 • Chicago, Illinois 60611 312 -337 -2169 • Fax: 312 -337 -6329 • www.aapd.org • www.mychildrensteeth.org June 16, 2025 Delivered electronically Dr. Mehmet Oz, Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Administrator Oz: On behalf of the nearly 12,000 members of the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD), we are writing to provide comments on the request for information (RFI) on the health technology ecosystem ( RIN 0938 -AV68 ). The AAPD is the recognized authority on children’s oral health. As advocates for the optimal oral health of all children, the AAPD promotes evidence -based policies, best practices, and clinical guidelines; educates and informs policymakers, parents and gua rdians, and other health care professionals; supports research; and provides continuing professional education for pediatric dentists and general dentists who treat children. Over the past few years, AAPD has paid close attention to opportunities provided by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to enhance medical technology interoperability. We appreciate the opportunity to add our input on this important topic to CMS and the Assistant Secretary for Technol ogy Policy and Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC). The integration of all health information on shared platforms is critical for patients and providers. It keeps patients and families informed about their health status and received or planned health care services , and it facilitates providers’ communication of crucial information across health disciplines and specialties. Medical -dental integration specifically has been of great interest to our community . One significant challenge to navigate relates to the differences in medical and dental coding. Medic ine utilizes Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes and diagnostic International Classification of Diseases (ICD -10) codes. Dentistry uses procedural Current Dental Terminology (CDT) codes. CDT codes are unique as they are alphanumeric, infrequently use modifiers, and rar ely include ICD-10 diagnostic codes. Medical - dental integration is a strongly encouraged practice, but provider feedback indicates that electronic health records unable to digest CDT codes create barriers to integr ation. The AAPD urges CMS and ASTP/ONC to recognize and consider the differences between these cod e systems so that future digital health products and health technology infrastructure are scalable and interoperable. The AAPD recognizes this RFI seeks input on initiatives that hold promise for improving health outcomes, and as such, we applaud CMS for prioritizing the reporting of quality measure s in the health technology infrastructure . The AAPD is proud of its involvement with the Dental Quality Alliance (DQA ), the nation’s premier quality measurement body in dentistry with representation from numerous clinical, public health, specialty and government agencies. It has unparalleled relationships with the nation’s health quality infrastructure. Its DQA State Oral Health Quality Dashboard utilizing T-MSIS data and its Dental Experience Research Exchange (DERE) focusing on practitioner databases offer great opportunities to develop point -of-service as well as health systems information . A CMS ASTP/ONC led health technolo gy improvement that 
facilitates seamless submission of data by providers to calculate quality metrics would be invaluable. This would enhance the ability of providers to assess the quality of care in their own practices and settings in real time and has the potential to improve care delivery and health outcomes. Finally, AAPD commends CMS and ASTP/ONC for their work over the years on digital technology. The AAPD acknowledges the progress over the years including the 21st Century Cures Act of 2017; Executive Order 13813 “Promoting Healthcare Choice and Competition Across the United States”; and, most recently, the publication of HL7® CDA® R2 Implementation Guide: Dental Data Exchange, Release 1, STU 1 - US Realm. The AAPD recognizes these achievements and hopes to continue collaborating with CMS and ASTP/ONC on these important health technology and interoperability efforts . We would be more than happy to engage in a discussion and address any questions regarding our feedback; please contact Dr. Chelsea Fosse , Vice President, Research & Policy Center, to coordinate. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Thomas G. Ison, DMD President 