Response to CMS RFI May 16, 2025 This document, prepared in response to the Request for Information dated May 16, 2025, serves to address the various problems, costs, inefficiencies, and wasteful spending, associated with current electronic healthcare records systems, and proposes a new and improved federally organized system for healthcare records keeping which will ensure efficient, cost-effective, high-quality healthcare. The RFI seeks feedback on stimulating innovation, improving API standards, and addressing substantial historic interoperability challenges. Currently, the stakeholder groups identified by the RFI face significant operational challenges. Health Care Technology Vendors and Networks evolved historically from a paper record system into a multiplicity of fragmented medical record instances. As a result, the current interoperability efforts dating from 2009 have not identified a common set of APIs for complete EHR access or a common set of data field definitions to deliver on the promise of interoperability in the current EHR ecosystem. As a result, Patients and Caregivers face significant barriers to accessing their health care data where they are receiving care in one place easily and promptly so that it can be shared with their clinical care teams. The negative consequences of these barriers are both emotional and financial. Provider success is significantly hampered by incomplete critical patient data, resulting in remarkably expensive clinical rework, unnecessary delays in accessing needed care, and incomplete quality reporting and care coordination across a patient’s team of caregivers. Payers lack uniform patient identifying information leading to fraud and abuse, while incomplete clinical information hampers the accurate determination of covered benefits, wasting time and delaying care. Needed improvements such as real time prior authorization, real time payment methods, and systematic monitoring and reduction in fraud waste and abuse cannot be supported effectively in the current fragmented digital ecosystem. Value based care organizations are also hampered in the current environment by fragmented clinical information sources along with substantial rework and barriers to information sharing and consistent quality measurement that could help drive ongoing delivery of improved value-based care.
Current state and history The present CMS RFI aims to gather feedback to inform future policies and initiatives that will enhance patient access to health data, promote innovation in digital health products, and support value- based care (VBC) programs. As background, the 21st Century Cures Act (2016) and subsequent regulations have laid the foundation for a digital health ecosystem, enabling patients to access and share their health information securely. CMS initiatives like Blue Button 2.0 and Data at the Point of Care APIs have improved data access for patients and providers and in addition, recent rules have advanced interoperability, data exchange and the use of APIs to support patient-centric care. Strategic Opportunity: The implementation of a singular patient controlled interoperable personal health record system can best respond to aims of the RFI above. Features and functionality of the proposed singular record system include telehealth, universal connector, block chain capable for clinical audit, smart contracts and real time payment functions. The proposal is directed to the implementation of a next-generation distributed ledger and blockchain technology-based national/global tele-health platform with an integrated electronic healthcare record system and platform that facilitates records interoperability along with real-time payments. Data and information security can be effectuated via the use of the distributed ledger and blockchain technology. Information and records efficiency can be effectuated via records interoperability features to provide for efficient and effective healthcare while cutting costs associated with information which may be disbursed across disparate records systems, and which can result in treatment delays and duplicate and/or unnecessary or testing and/or procedures. It is proposed that a personal healthcare record be developed which can be assigned to individuals, much like a social security account or Medicare account, which personal healthcare record can be "owned" and "controlled" by each respective individual and which can be stored on and/or accessed via any computer, tablet, or cellular telephone. The personal healthcare record can be used in connection with a tele-health platform as well as in connection with in-person healthcare visits, treatments, and/or procedures. Data and information entries and transactions can be stored in, and secured via, a distributed ledger and blockchain technology-based platform. The tele-health platform can facilitate and provide for records interoperability with and between the proposed personal healthcare record and other commercially available electronic healthcare records, used by healthcare providers, to effectuate updates to all electronic healthcare records of or for an individual any time any electronic healthcare record or the personal 
healthcare record is updated. The same distributed ledger and blockchain technology- based national/global tele-health platform can be utilized to generate and submit insurance claims and to provide for the processing of real-time payments for insurance claims via the use of smart contracts. Various aspects of the proposed platform and healthcare records system are the subject of an issued U.S. Patent and numerous other pending U.S. Patent Applications. We are advocating for a focused acceleration of our efforts to complete our nation’s digital health ecosystem with clear expectations, timelines and incentives that will drive rapid achievement of interoperability, so all stakeholders can realize the enormous clinical and financial benefits of completing this transformation. Specific benefits of more rapid adoption of interoperability with the above ecosystem features will reduce clinical rework, support an audit system for monitoring and reducing fraud waste and abuse, and enable value-based care coordination to deliver further improvements in quality and cost reduction as detailed below. a) By connecting all patients’ available medical information from various EHR sources into a single record which can be shared between providers and payors, HHS total program costs can be reduced by approximately 20% which is the cost of current clinical rework. (approximately $600 Billion/per year) Clearly, the first cornerstone of VBC (value-based care) is to avoid clinical rework and inefficiency. b) In addition, deploying block chain with the unified record of a patient’s clinical and financial activities can enable the identification of fraud waste and abuse on an ongoing systemic basis, thereby providing additional savings and price transparency for patients along with enhanced cybersecurity. (more than the over $100 Billion in fraud waste and abuse CMS identified in 2023) c) More complete reliable clinical information in the health records system can further benefit from claims payment savings from smart payor contracts using block chain-based information to further reduce administrative costs for CMS, providers and payors. d) Finally, interoperable, secure, health information is the ideal platform for better functioning chronic care systems and enhanced provider collaboration in improving Value based care programs which will enhance patient engagement, lead to additional clinical efficiencies and improved quality of care.
Partnering with a patient controlled interoperable health record system can accelerate achieving interoperability across our diverse and fragmented medical record portals and thereby drive the systemic usability of all healthcare data. It is suggested that work done for APIs within the United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) | Interoperability Standards Platform (ISP) be re focused on enabling the specificity needed for full standardized interoperability in this effort. Achievement of full standardized interoperable health information will vastly increase the opportunity to leverage the health care ecosystem information for AI initiatives. The implication of AI projects and organizations as potential stakeholders suggests that a group of interested companies be recruited to participate in data standardization efforts. In addition AI companies and others who benefit from the creation of a larger pool of usable interoperable date may want to apply for a RFP to share the cost of the initial personal medical record build out, in order to be eligible to have a role in ongoing oversight via a more centralized ongoing process for reviewing and improving AI functionality and the potential use cases within the oversight and policy framework provided by HHS. Several components of the use of the digital health ecosystem need to be measured on an ongoing basis to track progress. These include but are not limited to: Is unified personal health record utilization reducing costs by enabling systemic identification of all a patient’s clinical information? Are high cost repeat clinical rework activities in hospital and ambulatory procedures as well as radiology, clinical laboratory and medication prescribing history being avoided? Does more timely review of more complete clinical histories due to a unified health record avoid delays in care decisions and improve patient safety? Does this changing digital health ecosystem increase patient satisfaction and engagement? What are the ongoing barriers to patient and provider adoption so that tactics to overcome barriers can be deployed? Beneficial impacts on stake holders in the RFI Focus Areas: Patients and Caregivers: The RFI seeks feedback on improving health management apps, data access, and integration, as well as encouraging adoption of digital tools. A patient controlled interoperable health record that defragments medical information to make clinical information available where the patient is receiving care will reduce clinical rework, increase patient satisfaction and improve the ability to coordinate care across different care sites and health “systems”.
Providers: The RFI seeks input on obstacles to using digital health products, interoperability challenges, and simplifying clinical quality data reporting. A patient controlled interoperable health record that defragments medical information to make clinical information available where the patient is in real time will reduce costly, wasteful clinical rework. Interoperable clinical records can enhance automation of quality documentation and simplify clinical quality data reporting. It may require that payer and other quality measures continue to be standardized based on an expanding universe of interoperable data fields. Payers: The RFI seeks suggestions on accelerating API implementation, digital identity adoption, and improving data exchange. Payers should be included in the scope of API implementation to provide appropriate access to patient controlled interoperable health records and the clinical and financial information available will improve real time prior authorization, enable real time payment methods, and reduce fraud waste and abuse. AI tools will be more applicable once data field definitions and natural language processing and AEO can be fully deployed. Technology Vendors and Networks: The RFI seeks feedback on stimulating innovation, improving API standards, and addressing interoperability challenges. A strategy that deploys a single patient controlled interoperable health record which is connected to existing EHR data portals can accelerate and sustain the adoption of API standards while achieving full interoperability of clinical and financial information exchange more quickly than our current fragmented approach. Positive messages that stress the value of interoperability to key stakeholders should be coupled with clear deadlines for measurements of the progressive adoption of full interoperability standards. Value-Based Care Organizations: The RFI seeks input on incentives for digital health adoption, essential health IT capabilities, and reducing provider burden. The pursuit of Value based Care will benefit greatly from reducing waste inherent in the 20% clinical rework we currently have. The implementation of patient controlled interoperable health records will improve access to the complete clinical and financial information needed to increase Value which is broadly defined as an increase in Quality with a reduction in Cost of care. (Value= Quality/Cost of Care.