Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052-6399
February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology
Department of Health & Human Services
200 Independence Ave, SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: RIN 0955-AA13
Dear Dr. Keane,
Introduction
Microsoft appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information:
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care from the
Office of the Deputy Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP) and
the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) at the US
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Microsoft’s perspective reflects its
broad experience across consumer health engagement, clinical productivity tools,
enterprise AI infrastructure and federally compliant cloud and data services. This
experience, grounded in Microsoft’s Responsible AI principles of safety, transparency,
fairness, security, and accountability, aligns closely with the Department’s goal of
deploying high value AI in a safe and transparent manner.
Microsoft is committed to supporting HHS as it shapes a regulatory ecosystem that allows
AI solutions to enhance clinical care and promote public health. To that end, Microsoft
recommends the following:
• Regulation: In furtherance of the OneHHS goal to standardize how federal agencies
evaluate, adopt and interface with private AI innovations, the Department should
consider publishing a guidance document for Industry that clearly establishes
boundaries for AI use across clinical and consumer health domains. Clear
definitions will enable the ecosystem of AI developers and AI implementers to fully
govern AI. This governance context should span the structuring of AI-ready data and
AI tools for development and deployment of AI in the health ecosystem. These

considerations should account for AI systems leveraging imaging, structured text,
unstructured text, pathology and numerous other data types needed to derive
insights that enable care teams and patients. Ultimately, the foregoing approach
could assist in allowing developers to design safe consumer experiences, allow
health systems to more confidently adopt AI solutions, and ensure that clinicians
maintain control over medical decisions.
• Reimbursement: CMS should recognize AI-enabled products and services that
measurably enhance clinical workflows and enable clinicians to improve patient
outcomes as eligible for reimbursement.
• Research & Development: AI researchers working in the life sciences who receive
funding from federal agencies (e.g., NIH, NSF, etc.) should be required to share
datasets, synthetic data programs and evaluation infrastructure to support safe
model testing and fair comparisons across AI tools.
Microsoft’s Perspective
AI is already enhancing patient experiences by optimizing clinical workflows, assisting
patient comprehension and generally improving the interactions people have with the
healthcare system. For instance, Microsoft products such as Dragon Copilot and prior
versions of Dragon technology have demonstrated measurable improvements in clinical
workflows by streamlining documentation processes, reducing the time clinicians spend
on administrative tasks and enhancing overall productivity. Quantitative analyses indicate
that the adoption of Dragon Copilot has led to a reduction in clinical documentation by an
average of 30-40%, enabling healthcare professionals to allocate more time to direct
patient care. Additionally, user reports show a significant decrease in transcription errors
and an improvement in the accuracy of patient records, with some institutions noting a
25% reduction in documentation-related discrepancies. These enhancements contribute
to faster patient throughput and improved satisfaction for both clinicians and patients. The
adoption of ambient scribe technologies like Dragon is only continuing to grow.
Nonetheless, private sector stakeholders are facing the regulatory burden of navigating an
uncertain and quickly changing regulatory landscape, hindering pathways to clinical AI
adoption.
As generative AI tools become embedded in clinical environments, HHS should provide a
unified federal interpretation that establishes clear regulatory expectations to maintain
safety, trust and innovation in the context of health AI solutions. To successfully deploy
safe and effective clinical AI, Microsoft believes federal level guidance is needed to enable
the appropriate and safe use of AI-ready data. A unified federal interpretation of AI system
2

use should also address access to longitudinal patient records to ensure AI results are
meaningful, establish a framework for the creation of a national Master Patient Index, and
data standards development for areas beyond medical text such as radiology and digital
pathology imaging. Additional means to achieve trust, safety and innovation could be
achieved through driving alignment on AI transparency standards for model developers,
such as a standard set of reporting indicators for performance.
Innovators and health systems need predictable and appropriately scaled guidance that
differentiates low- and high-risk health AI tools; for example, differentiating between
consumer wellness health AI tools from FDA‑regulated medical devices or distinguishing
between clinical decision support tools, which augment or assist but do not replace
clinician judgment, from fully autonomous clinical AI systems. This guidance should align
with recent FDA announcements that prioritize this philosophy, particularly the updated
clinical decision support guidance and the general wellness policy for low‑risk devices,
that offer flexibility but recognize the increasing role of lifecycle‑based oversight for
adaptive systems.
As systems evolve through post‑deployment learning, oversight must incorporate
real‑world monitoring, change control, transparent communication with users and
guardrails that preserve clinical authority. The OneHHS guidance document should apply a
risk-based framework to help classify healthcare AI solutions based on their potential
impact and tailor oversight accordingly. Any such guidance should also reflect the
real‑world evolution of AI‑enabled documentation assistants and intelligent workflow
aides, such as Microsoft Dragon Copilot, which reduce clinicians’ burden while ensuring
that clinical decision‑making remains squarely under their control and is expanding its
reach to multiple personas, including Nurses and Radiologists. As noted above, ambient
tools such as these directly address one of clinicians’ biggest barriers to AI adoption,
administrative overload and free up time for patient care while maintaining clinician
oversight of notes.
Recommendations
Reimbursement
Uncertainty in payment policy is limiting the adoption of AI in clinical care – as providers
may not know how to choose which solutions to invest in and whether they will eventually
be reimbursed. CMS should create reimbursement pathways and define AI-enabled
clinical services as a recognized class, to reflect the demonstrable value of AI.
Clinician‑supervised interventions, such as AI‑enhanced documentation, image review,
care coordination and real‑time clinical support should have explicit billing mechanisms
3

through Medicare. AI Device manufacturers should be compensated for measurable
reductions in administrative burden, improvements in documentation quality and
enhancements in care coordination and provider well‑being.
Consumer‑facing navigation and conversational AI agents should be eligible for coverage
when they help clinicians to improve patient experience and outcomes. Imaging agents
and diagnostic reporting AI can also reduce friction in report generation while increasing
report accuracy, suggesting eligibility would benefit the ecosystem. CMS Innovation
Center models can test or pilot these agents where necessary in accountable care and
Medicaid settings.
Interoperability
Despite progress, the incomplete adoption of consistent standards for data extraction and
use is a challenge to advance health AI in clinical care. Incomplete or inconsistent data
limits the ability of AI applications to meaningfully interoperate with electronic health
records, imaging platforms and other clinical systems. While Microsoft supports
ASTP/ONC's efforts to advance to a leaner, interoperability‑first certification approach
emphasizing FHIR‑based APIs, Microsoft encourages ASTP/ONC to also focus on standards
that prioritize visible data‑quality and provenance indicators. Consumer companions and
clinical aides both depend on reliable data, labs, medications, imaging, longitudinal care
plans and patient‑generated information to support safe and accurate guidance, making a
policy shift to require API access to all Electronic Health Information (EHI) and not just the
United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) elements, is imperative to empower
patients with complete, usable access to their health information. We recommend
mandating comprehensive export capabilities with appropriate documentation to enable
patients and their authorized applications to access their complete health story.
Evaluation Methods
HHS should invest in shared benchmark datasets, synthetic data programs and evaluation
infrastructure to support safe and transparent model testing and fair comparisons across
tools, with an emphasis on post-market monitoring. Evaluation guidance should address
usability, workflow alignment, subgroup performance, hallucination risk, failure mode
testing and monitoring for model drift. Transparent evaluation guidance will create a
consistent foundation for developers, health systems, and regulators while improving
public trust.
Privacy
Privacy and liability should establish expectations for transparency, permitted data use,
monitoring, security, and human oversight. Today, a patchwork of new state laws looking to
4

govern such data use create challenges to predictable approaches; clear federal templates
would help drive clarity and reduce contracting friction while protecting patients and
caregivers in the context of a safe, predictable environment for innovation.
Consumer AI Shift
Healthcare is rapidly shifting from the clinic to the home, where everyday consumer tools
increasingly shape how people interpret symptoms, decide when to seek help, prepare for
clinical visits, follow care plans and navigate an overwhelmingly complex system.
Consumer AI in Copilot and Bing is already the first touchpoint for millions of Americans,
helping them make sense of their health long before they reach a clinician.
As this transition accelerates, federal policy should prioritize keeping low-risk
conversational AI systems under a general wellness framework, as they provide education,
navigation, and comprehension support -- not clinical triage or diagnosis.
HHS should recognize, however, that these conversational AI systems are moving steadily
toward more sophisticated medical reasoning. Microsoft AI has publicly outlined the path
toward medical superintelligence, or AI systems capable of far more reliable and
transparent clinical reasoning than today’s systems. As consumer tools evolve along this
trajectory, some functionalities will inevitably approach higher‑risk, diagnosis‑adjacent
intended purposes, thereby requiring careful regulatory consideration that will warrant the
appropriate guardrails and oversight.
Preparing for that future now is essential. HHS can lay the groundwork by defining
forward‑looking regulatory pathways that create an "on-ramp" for currently low-risk
consumer AI systems that will eventually bring diagnostic support and other higher‑risk
capabilities once the technology reaches clinically actionable performance. With
appropriate safeguards, longitudinal AI companions can make millions of health queries
safer and more accurate, improve comprehension and confidence that strengthens self-
management, deepen the connection between patients and clinicians, and support better
outcomes across all communities.
As families increasingly turn to AI as their first source of health information, strong federal
leadership in shaping safe, scalable pathways is essential to ensuring consumer AI tools
can deliver national‑level impact while also maintaining consumer safety and trust.
Proactively thinking about how technology will evolve will allow HHS to take a forward-
leaning approach that prepares the ecosystem for the next era of AI‑enabled healthcare,
from today’s wellness tools to tomorrow’s medical superintelligence.
Conclusion
5

Microsoft supports HHS’s leadership in developing a coherent, forward‑looking regulatory,
reimbursement and research framework for AI in clinical care. We are committed to
partnering with HHS to modernize reimbursement, clarify regulatory boundaries,
strengthen interoperability and invest in trusted evaluation infrastructure. With aligned
federal action, the United States can deploy consumer and clinical AI that improves
outcomes, enhances access, reduces administrative burden and helps empower every
patient to take charge of their health and every provider to supply the best care available.
6