Proposed changes to resource definitions for DaVinci PDEX Drug Formulary
Eric Ellsworth, 2021-07-22
This proposed model is based on EE’s prior work evaluating formularies to help consumers investigate
them, and was refined during the CMS FHIR Connectathon Jan 7-9, 2020, and finally finished in the CMS
FHIR Connectathon Jul 20-22 2021.
Background
Formularies are Member Contract Documents
As it exists in its full form, a formulary is a component of insurance policy that essentially functions as a
contract addendum stipulating terms around coverage of drugs. Formulary documents contain a
number of kinds of information:
- Explanatory text about how tiers, drug lists, and other terms of drug coverage work
- Defines non-coverage of entire classes of drugs (e.g. hair loss, erectile dysfunction etc.) in
textual form
- Provides contextual information about the scenarios in which drugs may or may not be covered
often called the “clinical indication”
- Defines specific requirements around drugs that require prior authorization and/or step
therapy.
- Defines tiers of drugs
- Lists drugs and their associated tier, usually specifying drugs in very broad ways (drug name, use
of capitalization to specify
Formularies themselves typically do not specify cost-sharing amounts for drug tiers; cost-sharing is
established at the plan level for each plan referencing the formulary.
In creating this proposal, I reviewed several formulary documents published online:
- UPMC Advantage Choice (Dec 2019)
- Kaiser Permanent Colorado Commercial Formulary
- Kaiser Permanente Colorado Specialty Tier Drug List
- Kaiser Permanente FEHB Formulary
- Bright Health Colorado Formulary
I’ve also read a large number of other formularies; this proposal reflects general knowledge derived
from that.
Most payers maintain a limited number of formularies, often one per market segment. Within employer
plans (ERISA-regulated) there may be some customization of formularies for specific employers (e.g.
self-insured entities where the insurer and the PBM function as Administrative Service Organizations) –
for these plans the formulary itself may be specific to one or a small number of plans. A plan usually
explicitly references one formulary, but by dint of the full member contract and associated contract
documents, other lists of drugs and coverage may be implicitly referenced. For example, most payors

do not publish consumer-facing lists of physician-administered drugs such as those delivered
intravenously or within other parts of the body; such coverage lists are managed separately.
As stated above, formulary documents define tiers of drugs. These tiers are defined numerically and are
“semi-ordinal” –a higher number roughly indicates a more costly drug, but there are cases that break
the ordinality (e.g. physician-administered/medical service drugs, “wellness drugs”, etc). The formulary
itself does not define specific cost-sharing for those tiers; that cost sharing is defined within the
prescription drug coverage in a plan (whether medical or standalone drug plan) making reference to the
tiers defined in the formulary. Formulary documents also serve other purposes: they make general
statements of policy by the carrier regarding prescription drugs, they state specific drugs, drug classes,
or utilization scenarios that are not covered. A formulary document’s list of covered drugs is frequently
grouped by drug class and/or clinical utilization scenario for faster use by physicians.
Within a “legacy” (print) formulary, drugs in the drug list are presented as a drug name alone, with no
associated dose form or strength. Since formulary documents have historically been geared toward
providers, listing a drug without any dose or strength likely indicates coverage for all commonly
prescribed dose forms (e.g. tablets/capsules for many oral medications, injections for insulin and other
drugs, topical creams for external conditions, etc.). Coverage of uncommon forms (e.g. injectable
Lipitor) is left unstated, meaning possibly that the issue would be dealt with either in via prior
authorization or exception request or within the claims adjudication process.
Problems Defining Formularies in Machine Readable Form
Machine-readable formularies are often defined with RxCUI codes to avoid having to declare drugs at
the level of an individual manufactured product (i.e. NDC codes). Some formulary data collection
schemes (e.g. Medicare Part D formularies) use a defined mapping between NDC and RxCUI to allow
insurers to reference other data that may use NDC codes or readily be crosswalked to NDC codes.
Within the ACA markets, formularies are collected from issuers using SERFF templates (SERFF
Prescription Drug template). These templates are Excel spreadsheets which are filled in manually by
personnel focused on regulatory approval. The SERFF templates currently use only RxCUI codes that
specify strength of brand and generic drugs (i.e. TTYs specified in the RxTerms subset of RxNorm, which
are all drug-strength-dose-form specific), and make no statements about broader coverage (e.g.
coverage of all strengths within a dose form or if there are exception processes for infrequently used
dose forms). This leaves uncertainty about whether relevant dose forms were intentionally (i.e. not
covered) or unintentionally (i.e. actually covered) left out of the list. Such unintentional blanks can
occur because the time lag between the time that a pharmaceutical manufacturer changes dose
strengths and the time that something prompts the insurer or PBM to closely review the list of covered
drugs.
In assessing the accuracy of formulary data, it is also important to take into account is the way that
coverage of drugs is established. Within the insurer (or within the associated PBM), there is a Pharmacy
and Therapeutics Committee (aka “tech committee”) that assesses the drug for its cost-benefit and
safety profile, as well as any legal issues concerning whether or not to offer coverage. This committee
makes a determination of whether to cover the drug, and other actors in the insurer/PBM undertake
contracting to define the price paid for the drug; those two elements determine whether the drug is on-
formulary and what tier it is on.

In most cases the price that the insurer or PBM pays for the drug does not vary by drug strength, and
thus most strengths of the same dose form (e.g. 10, 20, 40, 80 mg of an oral pill) are covered in the
same way, mean all such strengths are on the same tier. However, coverage for different dose forms is
not generally the same, as the price to the insurer/PBM will be quite different for an injectable form of a
drug than an oral pill, and the “uncommon” dose form is generally only dispensed as a fallback when the
“common” dose form will not work for a specific patient. Therefore the tech committee may not
generally specify coverage at the level of drug/dose form/strength combination that is the required
granularity for the RxCUIs used in machine-readable formularies.
Another problem arises when a pharmaceutical company decides to change the available dose forms
(e.g. split a minimum 10 mg dose into 5 mg and 15 mg). When this happens, the FDA removes the NDC
code of the old dose forms from the list of NDCs that it publishes daily. RxNorm then uses this change to
the NDC list to mark the drug as “archived”. However, unless the reason the FDA “unlisted” drug is a
recall scenario (safety issues), the drug remains available at the pharmacy until supplies run out. The
“archived” drug list overwhelmingly composed of drugs that really aren’t available, so it’s very hard for a
non-expert person at an insurer to figure out when an archived RxCUI should or should not be included
in the machine-readable drug list. Similarly, if a new dose form is added, but the insurer has not looked
closely at these changes (which do not merit new attention from the tech committee) it is quite likely
that the new dose form is also not listed in the machine-readable data.
Further compounding the problem in the ACA markets is the fact that data is entered into the SERFF
Prescription Drug template manually. This template is submitted to the state insurance department as
part of the insurer’s process of getting approval to offer its plans and rates in that state for that year. As
such the person entering the data is not only non-expert, their role is mostly administrative, with
goals/accountability around state and/or CMS approval for their plans rather than accurate information
for consumers (this is a problem with all the SERFF data used for Healthcare.gov). In practice this means
that someone with limited knowledge of the clinical or price reasons of coverage is obliged to pick a
detailed set of RxCUIs to include in the machine-readable formulary with little to no understanding of
the “true” coverage parameters. This approach is subject to introduction of many errors of omission.
Yet another problem concerns the scope of formulary itself. Consumer-facing formularies typically only
specify coverage of drugs that consumers can buy and take themselves; drugs administered by
physicians or at a hospital are not listed. Some insurers also define a separate formulary for specialty
drugs (many of which fall on the line between physician-administered and patient administered), while
other insurers list specialty drugs within the same formulary as other consumer facing drugs. As
mentioned above, nearly all insurers exclude certain classes of drugs (cosmetic, ED, vitamins) from
coverage. Some drugs may be covered under certain circumstances, such as Botox for overactive
bladder but not for facial appearance or vitamins for prenatal care or medical needs but not general
wellness.
Many machine-readable formularies and instructions for completing them lack clear guidance on the
scope of drugs to include, not only in terms of the drugs themselves but dose forms and strengths that
should or should not be included.
A clear indication of scope will dramatically reduce the likelihood of mistaken conclusions of non-
coverage, as explained further below.

Consequences of Using Missing Rows to Indicate Non-Coverage
In most schemes involving machine-readable formularies, non-coverage is indicated by non-inclusion of
a particular code- there is no positive statement of non-coverage. This is also the case in “legacy”
formularies – drugs that are not explicitly listed are presumed not be covered. However, in standard
practice “legacy” formularies are embedded in a set of contextual knowledge and investigative practices
that precede a black and white response of non-coverage in the form that the FHIR Formulary API will
deliver.
Formularies that report at a less granular detail (atorvastatin is covered but Lipitor is not) can avoid
many false conclusions like “liquid atorvastatin is not covered” when in fact common practice is simply
to list the commonly used form of atorvastatin (as a pill or capsule) and the payor would pay for liquid
atorvastatin.
With machine-readable formularies, however, APIs are set to render a yes/no answer on coverage.
Furthermore, applications which consume this result have little way of establishing the context or
veracity of the result, but must pass on the result verbatim. For example, a plan shopping tool that uses
coverage of a drug to rank plans or calculate expected out-of-pocket costs would mistakenly calculate
very high costs for that plan.
Without clear delineation of the scope of RxCUIs included in the formulary, it is very easy to build a
search universe of RxCUI codes that were excluded from the formulary not because of non-coverage but
because of different assumptions about the scope of drugs to be included.
For example, consider the case where one insurer chooses to include birth control medications in the
machine-readable formulary while another insurer does not. The application developer is unaware of
this, and simply chooses to allow searching for all RxCUIs they assume should be covered (the most
likely scenario in reality). For the insurer that decided not to list birth control medications, the results
will incorrectly show that they do not cover any birth control when in fact they do, they just didn’t think
they were in scope for the formulary list.
A robust resource implementation could offset many of these problems by clearly defining the scope of
drugs that the formulary intends to cover.
An additional problem is if one insurer decides to use a different RxCUI code than another to indicate
coverage for a particular drug, say if one carrier puts in Lipitor 10 mg, 40 mg, and 80 mg while another
puts in 10 mg, 20 mg, 80 mg. In this case a user will always get the wrong answer for both 40mg and
20mg – one carrier covers it while another doesn’t.
A better way to deal with this is to move up one level of granularity to the SXDG RxCUI (Lipitor Oral Pill),
and allow exceptions to be named specifically. So the insurer could say we cover all strengths of Lipitor
Oral Pill except 40mg. This would address cases such as with Nexium, where one strength is on-patent
and the rest are off-patent/generic. Using SXDG_Rxcui with carve-outs would dramatically reduce both
the number and complexity of RxCUI codes to be entered. This level of granularity is also much closer to
the average consumer’s intended shopping scenario. After all if the 40mg is really not covered they can
just adjust their script to take 2 x 20mg.

Proposed changes for FHIR Formulary Resource
This proposal suggests some (hopefully) uncomplicated ways the FHIR formulary resources can be
adjusted to provide results that are much more robust to the problems demonstrated above. It would
allow consumers and application developers to have more confidence in the results given by FHIR
formulary resources without requiring that the underlying data be in perfect condition, or that the API
consumer have perfect understanding of the intended scope of the machine-readable formulary
asserted through the API.
Goals of this proposal
• Ensure that the formulary lookup functionality within FHIR meets consumer needs and is
structured to minimize complexity of data and of required inputs.
• Make the resource and associated drug lookup/shopping functionality less likely to have
incorrect data by changing the granularity/cardinality of drug codes from strength specific
RxCUIs to higher level RxCUIs (e.g. SXDG TTY) and allowing specific carve-outs.
• Reduce the likelihood of returning incorrect results by creating a definition of the scope of drugs
addressed or not addressed by the current formulary.
• Simplify the generation and management of formularies by creating a separate Formulary
resource that defines tiers but not plan-specific cost-sharing
• Add elements to the Formulary resources that address the scope of the other drug list and other
key contractual terms specified by current “legacy” formularies.
Significant changes:
- Proposes established a separate Formulary resource which defines tiers and a drug list but does
not include details of cost sharing, consistent with typical definition of formularies
- Add elements to Formulary that incorporate policy related statements found in PDF formularies.
- Revise the CoveragePlan (suggest calling DrugCoveragePlan) to reference the Formulary
resource
- Separate the TierDefinition resource into two distinct resources: a DrugTier resource that is
associated with a Formulary resource, and DrugTierCostSharing resource that is associated with
the DrugCoverage resource.
- Enable use of RxCUI TTYs that do not specify strength or dose form
Additional Use Case Language:
- A payor wishes to create and expose a Formulary document in machine-readable form that can
be rendered into human-readable form with the additional of only explanatory language (i.e.,
the FHIR resource contains relevant policy language)
Entity Resource Diagram
https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/edit/5e88d96b-ea49-40fd-9360-cacab26278f7/0_0

Updated Definitions of Resources
DrugCoverage resource
Element Type Description Notes
planID Character 1..1 Identifier of the plan This may need to
reference another Plan
or Coverage resource,
as drug coverage is
often included within a
medical plan.
planIDType Character 1..1 Identifies the type of Determines which
plan (drug or medical) reference to use. If not
needed can delete.
FormularyID Character 1..1 Identifier of the
formulary used by this
plan
DrugTierCostSharing Collection of Contains the cost-
DrugTierCostShare sharing requirements
for all of the tiers
defined in the

Formulary resource
used by this plan
UsesPharmacyNetwork Boolean Indicates whether the
plan requires a
consumer to use in-
network pharmacies to
obtain the contract
price and cost-sharing
PharmacyNetworkID Character networkID of the Probably contained
pharmacies a within an existing
consumer can use Network resource
Formulary resource
Element Type Description Notes
FormularyID character 1..1 Formulary identifier This may identifier may
used by plans be local unique but not
globally unique;
submissions made in
SERFF currently use
locally but not globally
unique identifiers for
formularies
FormularyGlobalID character 1..1 Global formulary A global unique
identifier enabling a identifier that can be
consumer to reach displayed to consumers
their own plan’s and providers for
formulary and correctly searching online
identify this formulary formularies. This
global identifier should
also enable a consumer
or designated app to
reach the URI for this
specific formulary
FormularyWebsite url 0..1 URL for a website Some carriers may
associated with the have a website with
formulary resources for
consumers regarding
their formulary,
including prices of
specific drugs (not just
copay or coinsurance),
related drugs, etc.

PlanYear character 1..1 The plan year for which Formularies are
this formulary applies associated with a
particular plan year.
This is a descriptor and
could replaced by
startDate
Expiration character 1..1 Expiration data of the Date this formulary
formulary document goes out of
validity (typically same
as expirationDate of
associated plans)
LastUpdated datetime 1..1 Date the formulary was Formularies are often
last updated updated a few times
during a given plan
year
FormularyDrugs List 1..1 The List resource Note that the list is a
containing the specific distinct resource
drugs and tiers on this (similar to the distinct
formulary Formulary and Drug
List sheets in the SERFF
Prescription Drug
template)
DrugTiers Collection of Tier Definition of the tiers Does not include cost
resources for this formulary sharing values, as these
can vary among
different plans that use
the same Formulary
ListScope Collection of character Defines the types of Some payers use
drugs contained by the different formularies
FormularyDrugs List for different types of
resource drugs (e.g. specialty
drugs, medical service
drugs, vitamins), while
others use a single
formulary for all drugs.
Additionally, some
drugs may be paid for
through medical rather
than drug benefits.
RelatedFormularies Collection of character Identifiers for related E.g. the payer uses a
formularies separate specialty
formulary, this would
contain the reference
for that formulary
BenefitExclusions Collection of character Statements that specify E.g. hair loss, erectile
specific exclude classes dysfunction drugs, etc.
of

OtherPolicyStatements Collection of character Other statements of E.g. if a consumer
policy chooses a branded
drug when a retail drug
is available s/he is
responsible for the
branded drug copay
plus the difference in
underlying cost of the
drug.
FormularyDrug resource
Element Type Description Notes
RXCUI Character RXCUI code identifying Should be able to
the drug or drug group include TTY: SBD, SCD,
SBDG, SCDG
RXCUI_TTY Character RXCUI type code TTYs of SBDG, SCDG
identifying the type will need to be
specified deferenced into the
correct SBD and SCD
drugs
DrugTierID DrugTier DrugTier resource for
this drug
PriorAuthorization Boolean Whether prior Might consider integer
authorization is if there are multiple
required codeable categories of
prior authorization to
be returned
PriorAuthInstructions Character Relevant instructions
for prior authorization
StepTherapy Boolean Whether step therapy Might consider integer
is required if there are multiple
codeable categories of
step therapy to be
returned
QuantityLimit Character Limits on quantity over
particular period of
time

GroupingHeader Character Header or category Permits listing of drugs
under which this drug by category, also
falls for reference permits any category
specific information to
be presented
Notes Character Notes on this specific
drug such as dose form
coverage or non-
coverage
DrugTier resource
Element Type Description Notes
DrugTierID Character Identifier for the drug Usually this is an
tier integer, but since drug
tiers are not ordinal
and might have
modifiers, it may be
better to permit
characters
TierName Character Visible name for the This is as would be
drug tier visible to a consumer
or provider on a
printed/rendered
formulary
TierExplanation Character Explanations of drug
tiers and specific
requirements
DrugTierCostShare resource
Element Type Description Notes
DrugTierID Character Identifier for the
drug tier
PharmacyType Character Whether this drug is
available at a retail,
mail order or
specialty pharmacy
DaysSupply Character Number of days E.g. 30 day or 90 day
supplied under this
cost sharing
CopayAmount Money Amount of Copay
CopayDeductibleApplies Boolean Whether the plan’s Could also be
relevant (medical or character if
drug) deductible additional
applies

information is
needed
CoinsuranceAmount Percentage Percentage of the Note that in some
drug’s cost the cases payors list the
consumer is required amount THEY will
to pay pay. This is
confusing and the
standard should
require the use of
consumer’s payment
CoinsuranceDeductibleApplies Boolean Whether the plan’s Could also be
relevant (medical or character if
drug) deductible additional
applies information is
needed
MaximumCostPerFill Money Monetary limit on E.g. for this kind of
the cost of the fill benefit (40%
coinsurance after
deductible up to a
maximum of $250)