 June 16, 2025 The Honorable Mehmet Oz , M.D. Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D. Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, National Coordinator for Health Information Technology Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 Re: CMS -0042 -NC Request for Information ; Health Technology Ecosystem Dear Dr. Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane : AARP, which advocates for the more than 100 million Americans age 50 and older, thanks you for requesting stakeholder input regarding the market for digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries , as well as broader health data and technology infrastructure. We appreciate the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy’s interest in harnessing technology to improve patient experience and outcomes. Digital health technologies are extending health care delive ry into communities and into the home. Examples range from web pages and apps that support healthy behaviors such as tracking daily activity, sleep, medicine adherence, diet, and social connection – all the way to healthcare monitoring platforms that enabl e advanced care at home. These advancements must work for all Americans and we are responding to specific questions in the RFI from the viewpoint of the consumer. PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take? As a foundational starting point, the best health management or care navigation apps would be designed with older Americans’ needs and preferences considered throughout the development process. An ideal app, though, would automatically load an individual’s personal health information into a consumer -friendly tool; integrate health and mental health records ; facilitate care coordination across providers ; manage medications; remind you and your family caregivers about appointments; and help you and your famil y caregivers communicate with providers. All this must be done while maintaining the user’s trust, which includes protecting this sensitive and personal health data. In general, we support the prospect of individuals being able to access and share their personal health information through application programming interfaces (APIs). AARP recognizes that APIs have tremendous potential to promote interoperability and make the health care system more seamless. Yet, while APIs and apps can be a useful tool, consumers and providers should be aware of their limitations, and regulators must strive to minimize risks to 
2 consumers. Policymakers and industry stakeholders too often assume that because consumers routinely perform many daily tasks on their mobile phones, they should be able to access their health information the same way. While it may be true that more and more older Americans are using technology , and that consumers often use personal devices for sensitive transactions, such as banking and bill paying, we urge you to be mindful of the extremely intimate and private nature of personal health data. Consumers place a higher value on privacy of their medical records than their purchasing habits . Yet, most people do not understand that existing HIPAA protections do not typically protect personal health data in AP Is. PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones’ health information in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)? Patient portals are helpful tools to manage health information. Unfortunately, these portals are not always integrated across providers , and older adults are left to piece together information. One solution would be to e stablish a consumer -controlled identity credential that would facilitate a nonprofit clearinghouse or health information exchange allowing free flow of health data (including for commercial purposes). This approach would address the issue of consumers having to create and maintain multiple identification credentials with potentially different terms of service as well as allow providers to outsource certain security functions, such as authentication. The approach also could enhance fraud detection. PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in these digital health products? Encouraging interest starts with building trust. The federal government should be instrumental in establishing standards and assessments for types of digital health products and supporting an independent open -source assessment framework. Reliable standards that address efficacy, usability, privacy , and integration will instill trust and confidence among consumers. To this end, we urge the Administration to not only continue engaging with consumer groups, but to facilitate engagement between consumers and technology developers through roundtables and forums, a s well as initiate and support the development of standards and assessments. Next , federal policymakers need to review and update the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act to bring it in line with current technologies. Currently , most health apps and tech services available to consumers are not covered entities and are not subject to HIPAA regulations, despite their collection or tracking of sensitive personal health information. Many direct -to-consumer applications are not covered under HIPAA, and they are only held accountable to the standards and “terms and conditions” they create themselves. As the types of third -party entities that collect, manage, or refine the data grow over time and evolve to offer a broader range of infor mation, including clinical advice , stronger consumer protections will be needed to ensure trust and encourage adoption . 
3 PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience using digital tools and services? Digital technology plays a significant role in the lives of older adults, who comprise a large and growing segment of the multibillion -dollar market for consumer electronics and apps. But too often, tech products are designed without accounting for the uni que needs and preferences of older consumers, causing friction, frustration, and lost opportunities on both sides. AARP research found that two in five (42%) adults age 50 -plus do not feel technology is designed for all ages. Even with that sense of distrust, 35% of adults 50 -plus say they would use technology more if they knew how and 16% say they would use digital healthcare serv ices more if they knew how. Developers and retailers of technology offerings erroneously view older adults as less tech -savvy, influential, and economically powerful, and therefore are less likely to design digital health technologies with older adults in mind. Through the AgeTech Collaborative , AARP is helping influence the technology industry to provide user -friendly products and services for all ages, and promoting implementable age -friendly design practices, in order to drive usage and open doors to healthier lifestyles . Age-friendly design is about achieving an optimal user experience for people across age groups by being more intentional about including older adults in the design and maintaining a focus on the unique needs of 50 -plus users throughout the development process. Many older adults — 34% of adults ages 50 to 64 , and 59 % of adults ages 65 and older , according to AARP research — do not have sufficient health literacy to perform basic activities , or lack the digital skills needed to navigate online platforms or troubleshoot problems when they arise. Whereas user - experience design has advanced technology to be more responsive those with disabilities or changing abilities (often due to aging), age -friendly design creates a more personal experience by accounting for the typical differences between younge r and older users. Disability -centered thinking can sometimes reinforce stereoty pes about aging. Accessibility features are often very helpful for older adults who are experiencing changes in sensory, cognitive, or mobility functionality, but the accessibility lens does not fully address the needs of 50 -plus users. PC-7. If CMS were to collect real -world data on digital health products’ impact on health outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the best means of doing so? There is tremendous potential to use technology to empower people to take charge of their own health. These include popular products like genetic testing kits and mobile applications designed to help patients manage their health and wellness outside clinical settings. However, as we have noted above, this data is not subject to HIPAA protections and consumers may not understand how their data will be used – including in ways that consumers may find inappropriate. AARP urges CMS and ASTP to proceed with extreme caution when allowing for the collection and sharing of personal health information by digital health products, even if that data is eventually shared with CMS. 
4 Attempts to combine claims and utilization data with data from personal health products necessitates linking all sources of data into an identifiable patient file. We believe this is unadvisable because of the risk it poses and distrust it sows. First, the health data collected from an individual’s digital health product does not readily correlate to the individual’s health outcomes and their related costs. Utilization data is not ideal sources of “health information” for consumers. Diagnosis codes may be listed on claims as “rule outs”, rather than to indicate diseases or conditions a patient actually suffers from. Patients may also see that certain laboratory tests were performed, even though there is generally no information about results o r interpretation. Similarly, the use of imaging tests or pathologist consultations might be captured in the claims or data files , but the images and findings will not be present. The extent to which disease severity, risk factors, or prognosis can be asses sed using claims is extremely limited. Purely studying one’s medical claims from past services rendered does not help a person plan or make decisions about care in the future. Furthermore, w hile consumers may share their information with third parties who can collect, manage, or refine it, consumers are generally not aware that the health information they have downloaded onto their device from their provider or insurer, or authorized third parties to access, are no longer covered by HIPAA privacy and security rules. Before encouraging consumers to download or share their health information, CMS should make sure that individuals are aware of the risks and implications of doing so. Notification to consumers and their family caregivers should be proactively presented and in a way that is easy to understand. Third parties and non -HIPAA -covered entities should also be required to: • Ensure accuracy of health and health -related data; • Provide consumers with the opportunity to review the health information and data held about them; • Allow consumers to dispute and resolve the accuracy or completeness of health and health -related data; • Provide consumers with an easy and swift process to delete data when they want to end the relationship with an organization; and • Obtain consumers’ explicit opt -in consent before selling, sharing, or trading personally identifiable health or health -related data, including doing so with a subsidiary. In the case of a data breach where protected health information is stolen, made public, compromised, otherwise impermissibly used, regulators must require companies to abide by state and federal regulations, which include notifying affected consumers in a timely manner. TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest — a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs? A comprehensive framework of privacy and security safeguards is needed to help ensure public trust in health information technology and the appropriate use of health information. This includes ensuring that data components are de -identified. Any such safeg uards should be 
5 transparent in their use and disclosures of personal health data. This would help mitigate AARP ’s concerns that approaching health data as a commodity of value invites unnecessary risk and does a disservice to consumers. As CMS continues to develop and promote a data exchange infrastructure, we urge you to adhere to three general principles : (1) Transparency: All stakeholders should be able to understand and access information relevant to procedures, policies, and practices related to data collection and usage . (2) Consumer participation and control: Consumers must have access to easily understandable information about their PHI, how it is used, and how they can control its exchange. (3) Accountability: Digital health product developers and administrators are accountable for enforcing privacy and security protections. TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing access to the entirety of a patient’s electronic health information (EHI)? While there are many potential benefits of computerized data systems that facilitate access to personal health information , the need to protect the privacy, confidentiality, and security of that information is paramount. Both small - and large -scale data breaches have understandably heightened the public’s concerns about protecting personal information. A number of federal laws a nd regulations govern the disclosure and safeguarding of health information , most notably the Health Insurance Portability and Acco untability Act . But HIPAA protections only cover entities such as hospitals , providers , and products that have a direct business relationship with those entities – the rules do not govern digital health products that consumers choose to use. The flow of data from covered entities and consumers to third -party apps raises questions about the limits of existing protections. Consumers have a right to accurate, secure, and confidential health and health -related information , without expos ing their health information to unnecessary risks. Organizations (including private companies, nonprofits, and government entities) should be required to provide consumers with meaningful transparency, choice, and control related to their health and health - related data. This includes obtaining consumer con sent over how such data are collected, used, shared, or sold. Organizations should continue to be prohibited from sharing or selling personally identifiable protected health data without consumer consent. Even when consent is provided, consumers should have easy access to information on who has received the data and why. Moreover, digital health products and services should be embedded with privacy and security protections by design. Organizations and companies must only collect and retain such personally identifiable information necessary to make the system, product, or service work – a practice known as “data minimization ”. 
6 Conclusion AARP appreciates the opportunity to respond to your request for information on the Health Technology Ecosystem. We understand the challenges of balancing privacy and security with the desire to improve care through data sharing. As you lay the groundwork for fu ture innovation, we urge you to ensure people can retain control of the use of their own information and that individual and family -caregiver needs will be given the utmost priority. We look forward to working with you to make sure personal health data is used appropriately and responsibly in the delivery of care. If you have any questions , feel free to contact me, or have your staff contact Andrew Scholnick of our Government Affairs team at ascholnick@aarp.org or 202 -434-3770. Sincerely, Megan O ’Reilly Vice President Government Affairs, AARP 