February 23, 2026
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., JD, LLM
Secretary
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: HHS Health Sector AI RFI - Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of
Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care; RIN 0955-AA13
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
On behalf of the American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA), the premier professional
organization representing the vast majority of the nation’s doctors of podiatric medicine, also known as
podiatrists or podiatric physicians and surgeons, I thank you for the opportunity to respond to the
Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) “Health Sector AI RFI - Request for Information:
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care.”
APMA applauds HHS’ proactive approach and embrace of artificial intelligence (AI) in advancing its
ultimate goals of improved patient care and clinical outcomes while reducing clinician burden.
However, we respectfully urge HHS and its affiliated agencies to prioritize policies that integrate AI
technology to supplement, not supplant, the work of physicians. HHS must proceed thoughtfully and
deliberately, ensuring that the perspectives of all stakeholders are carefully evaluated and meaningfully
incorporated before moving forward too quickly.
Specifically, APMA urges HHS to ensure the following in any application or regulation of AI in health
care decisions, claims review, and other related processes:
1. Transparency and human oversight in coverage decisions;
2. Establishment of interoperability standards for AI in health care settings so that assistive AI
reduces physician administration burden, versus adding to it; and
3. Development of advisory bodies that provide opportunity for physician engagement and input so
that all perspectives, including those of podiatric physicians, are represented in the development
process for all AI regulatory and sub-regulatory guidance.
Transparency and Human Oversight in Coverage Decisions
While the use of AI-driven algorithms is becoming increasingly common in prior authorization (PA)
models, federal guardrails ensuring clinically accurate claim determinations have failed to keep pace.
Plans and payers largely omit public data around their processes that are often vague or opaque, leaving

major concerns from physicians. Additionally, AI algorithms regularly rely on generalized data that
oversimplifies patient encounters and leads to wrongful denials of care. Training data may include
biased samples, which can limit their applicability to relevant populations and inappropriately restrict
access to care. Furthermore, AI-driven algorithms can automatically downcode evaluation and
management services, leading to reduced reimbursement for podiatric physicians.
Given these concerns, APMA urges HHS to promote policies that strengthen transparency and ensure
sufficient guardrails around the use of AI in coverage decisions. Specifically, APMA recommends that
HHS mandate or ensure the following:
- Prioritization of patient-centered data and physician judgment in AI-driven PA models
APMA underscores the need for direct physician oversight and collaboration on AI
o
models and technology that impact patient care and the PA process. It is equally
important to ensure human oversight in AI-supported coverage decisions. AI-based
denials should be reviewed by qualified physicians who have the clinical training needed
to inform decisions regarding medical necessity.
- Federal reporting requirements to ensure transparency in data and processes for coverage
decisions with PA using AI, including public access to algorithms and explanations of the data
used to train the AI. The reporting requirements should also detail the percentage of claims
determined by AI, including approval and denial rates.
- Strict enforcement measures to ensure AI-driven models use individualized clinical records
rather than broad data sets to determine claim denial or approval.
- Disclosure to both providers and patients when AI is part of the PA decision.
Physician Representation in Emerging AI Regulation
Physicians are one of the primary stakeholders impacted by the unregulated use of AI, including in
payer claims decisions. Including their perspective is essential in ensuring effective and ethical design,
deployment, and regulation of AI use in healthcare settings. With respect to regulations and federal
oversight, perspectives from physicians will help create regulations that are ethically grounded and
clinically sound and help to maximize the likelihood that AI serves as a tool to enhance, rather than
hinder access to care. To help achieve this goal, HHS should create health care-related AI advisory
bodies which include podiatric physicians, to better inform any policy proposals or recommendations.
Assistive AI’s Role in Reducing Administrative Burden
Lastly, APMA agrees that there is opportunity for increased efficiencies and administrative burden
reduction in clinical practice when physicians incorporate AI. When used as a supportive tool1, assistive
AI reduces burden with patient documentation and visit summaries, and creates opportunity for
physicians to provide more direct, patient-centered care. Assistive AI also presents various opportunities
to strengthen health record interoperability by helping to standardize, interpret, and connect disparate
data sources, which in turn can bolster care coordination to improve patient outcome.
1 APMA is in alignment with the idea of “augmented intelligence”, a conceptualization of artificial intelligence put forth
by the American Medical Association that focuses on AI’s assistive role, emphasizing that its design enhances human
intelligence rather than replaces it.

APMA supports development of AI interoperability standards in healthcare. Standardization promotes
secure data exchange, reduces fragmentation, and enables seamless communication between electronic
health records (EHRs), diagnostic platforms, and clinical tools. Equally important are clear safeguards
that preserve physician autonomy in clinical decision-making. AI systems should function as supportive
tools, with providers remaining the primary and final decision-makers in their patients’ care.
Conclusion
Thank you again for the opportunity to respond to this request for information. If you require additional
information, please contact Gail Reese, APMA Director Health Policy and Practice, at
greese@apma.org or 301-581-9230. Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Brooke A. Bisbee, DPM
President