DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
[CMS–0042–NC]
RIN 0938–AV68
Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Chris Kreis, MD, 6/15/25
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Figure 1 - ChatGPT Queried June 15, 2025
I’m a 56 year old MD. I completed an NLM sponsored post doc in Medical
Informatics at the Mass General Hospital Laboratory of Computer Science in
2001, and thereafter I founded an EHR company, which I have been running for 24
years. I have extensive knowledge of EHR, information technology, healthcare
operations, and federal healthcare technology initiatives, including ONC goals,
regulations, and certification requirements. I’m an experienced coder as well.
Before answering your questions below, I want to give a general perspective on
my thoughts on the federal healthcare IT initiative.

The ONC had 2 main goals. One was to get everyone on EHR. The second to
make everything “interoperable”. In the first goal, they have to some degree
succeeded, although I think that the evolution to EHR would have anyway
happened naturally. The governmental acceleration forced many providers on to
systems they didn’t want to be on, and which they are now stuck on. And it
accelerated the growth of Epic toward being a monopoly and cemented it there.
On the second goal, “interoperability”, the government has so far failed. In fact,
the “interoperability” initiative, in my mind, grew out of a failure of what the real
movement should have been, which is “consolidated EHR”.
I’m not the first one to say this, but everyone should have one, single, centralized,
consolidated medical record, or a solution which approximates this exactly. By
achieving goal one (multiple EHRs), without achieving goal two (one EHR), the
government has moved the problem (chaos) we had on paper, into the electronic
world. And they’ve amplified it in the way that only technology can. They missed
an enormous opportunity. But, realizing that they would not be able to
consolidate to a single, central system, they scaled back to the next goal,
connecting all the disparate systems.
There is a potential savior for the federal efforts, however, and that is, of course,
AI. Interestingly, ‘artificial intelligence’ is mentioned only once in this entire RFI.
The government is behind the curve, because this entire RFI should probably be
about AI. AI has the potential to, and will probably one day, approximate
consolidation.
Almost all healthcare software systems (not just EHR, but practice management,
billing, scheduling, etc), are based on a back end database, connected to a front
end user interface. And these (database and interface) are really 2 separate
applications. So, if the government had had the foresight to set up a single back
end database, which could be connected to by multiple front end user interfaces
(think of these as front end applications, or, just applications), then, we could
have the best of both worlds; a single, consolidated chart on the back end, with
infinite variety of tailored user interfaces and applications and experiences on the
front end. The front end interfaces could even be connected by an API much like
FHIR.
The benefits of a centralized data repository are as positive as the disadvantages
of distributed data are negative. A centralized database not only forgoes the
current slow approach of polling every system out there, with the inevitable risk
of missing some, and trying to consolidate and somehow reconcile the gathered
information, but it also allows for the rapid querying of patient data across all
practices and care settings, and it allows for the rapid querying of population

data as well. These sorts of queries are virtually impossible with the current
approach to interoperability.
I can envision at least 2 ways the government could have (and still could)
accomplish this. One, is that Medicare sets up a single centralized database and
lets every EHR or other application connect to it. The other is that the ONC
declares that the patients primary care record database, in whatever system it is
currently held, is THE record database. Then, all the other systems or
applications would connect to that. This eliminates the ability to query across all
patients, but, at the least, it allows for query against all data for a single patient. A
third option is that the ONC utilizes a non profit contractor to maintain a central
database. The problem with this is that these non profit endeavors always seem
to turn in to for profit ones, and sometimes government granted monopolies at
that…
Regardless, since this didn’t happen, the government, probably through some
combination of lack of knowledge and probably more significantly politics (they
found out the healthcare systems are more powerful than they are), failed to
implement a centralized record. Instead, they scaled back to connecting all the
systems together. This is an awkward solution. Because it means right now, and
for the foreseeable future, if a doctor (or a patient) wants to see all their
information, they will have to query it from potentially many disparate sources,
and then try to somehow reconcile or make sense of what they get back.
Additionally, if they make an update the their chart, this update doesn’t get
distributed to all the other ones. So, immediately, everything is out of date.
With a single database, everyone connected, all changes update the central
repository immediately. Additionally, everyone contributes to keeping the
information up to date. This means problems removed from the problem list when
they should be, medications discontinued when they should be, and much more
overall awareness of what’s going on with your patients outside of your practice.
Naturally there can be such a thing as too many cooks in the kitchen, and there
will be occasional contention about what and who is the source of truth, but I
don’t think these disagreements will happen often. For the most part, I think a
consolidated chart will allow the entire care team to coordinate much more
effectively. It just must be well designed for that. And of course, it would be much
easier for the patient, who can now log in to a single portal to see everything.
Short of actually implementing a single central repository like this, how can we
get there? AI is the obvious contender. AI is already very good at synthesizing
information from disparate sources (consider for example when you ask a
question, and, it pauses while you can see it searching the internet for your

answer, and then it comes up with, in general, a well reasoned and well phrased
one [which, ha ha, has a reasonably good chance of being correct]). So, the hope
will be that an AI engine can connect to all of the disparate sources provided by
FHIR APIs, presumably utilizing TEFCA, and reconcile the information into a
passable record (optionally, all of the information pulled from the records can be
assembled algorithmically, with AI used to resolve discrepancies as best
possible).
Of note, AI is certainly neither foolproof nor even consistent. We use AI in our
EHR to generate visit summaries and chart analyses, and each one is different
every time. In fact, variability of responses is built into AI (although purely
deterministic responses can be requested). AI definitely makes things up, and I
expect it will be longer than anticipated until we solve that problem. It is not
currently a reasoning engine. It just looks like one.
One approach to the problem might still be to build a central patient data
repository (I think it can be secure enough if you encrypt the contents 100%), and
then build toward working off that. Another idea might be to funnel all queries
through AI. Instead of connecting to all the other EHR’s via TEFCA, connect to an
intermediary AI which does the querying for you.
--
Another thing I noticed about federal efforts, is that in the past there was more
talk of connecting EHRs for sharing patient data between EHRs and providers.
But the conversation seems to have shifted, and now everyone is just talking
primarily about giving patients access to their data. I suspect this is in response
to the political landscape, with vendors and healthcare systems screaming that
they don’t want to share their data. They say it’s for security reasons, which has
some validity, but the real reason of course is competitive ones. Practices or
systems want to own their patients, and they DON’T want to make it easy for
patients to go elsewhere (even though it benefits them when patients can easily
come to them).
Giving patients access to their charts has limited value, however. Because
believe it or not, patients don’t actually want access to their charts. That’s right.
Patients really only do very few things in their portals. They book appointments.
They pay bills. They message their doctor. They request refill requests. And they
check for test results. They do practically nothing else, nor do most of them
strongly desire to. What patients really DO want is for their doctors to have
access to their charts. Patients, but for some small, educated fraction, don’t really
care about what’s in their charts. But, they are continuously frustrated that every
time they go to the doctor, they are repeating the same information, telling the

doctor about an appointment they had elsewhere, or a hospitalization. They are
asking why their doctor doesn’t already HAVE their information. And doctors are
asking this too. And they don’t just want their information; they want it
consolidated and organized. And 20 years and 56+ billion dollars later, they still
don’t have this.
Now, some patients in this country DO have a single consolidated chart! And
every provider has access to all of it! These are the patients who reside in a
single healthcare system which has taken over an area and employs every
doctor, and they’ve all gone on to Epic or some other system. This is fine, until
the patient goes to another system (for example “snow birds” who migrate every
year from Florida to Cape Cod and back…) But, one approach might simply be to
give up the fight, let the giant healthcare systems and the giant EHR vendor
whose name shall not be spoken dominate, and, be done with it. In many ways, it
feels like this is what is anyway happening. But short of this, there is a better
option, and, your next objective should be finding it.
--
From the small vendor perspective, I will tell you this. Federal regulations are
extremely onerous. We feel like we are stuck in a non stop loop of endless
certifications. Certifications are extraordinarily expensive for a small business.
Roughly $35,000 to get certified, $1,000/hr for additional hours as necessary, 3-
5,000 / year for maintenance, and ongoing certifications. Every time we make a
change to the system which affects a certified section beyond cosmetics, we
must re-certify. This leaves us afraid to make updates and improvements. We
sometimes additionally must perform a “usability study” after even the smallest
changes. This costs minimum another 3,000, takes more time, and is utterly
worthless. Even if we determine that something could be improved, we already
have a list of improvements we know we want to make that’s a mile long, on top
of client requests. Finally, there is the required “real world testing”- who even
came up with this idea- to make sure that providers are using the system in the
mandated manners and that the necessary functionality (which we already
certified on!) is there. Of course it’s there- we certified on it! As to whether or not
providers are using – well, some they are, but some they aren’t, because, once
again, worthless. In these cases we just use test scenarios to “real world” test
functionality that is never used in the “real world”. Finally, we are also subject to
a host of other certifications as well- Surescripts certifications, Laboratory
certifications, DEA certifications, PCI compliance certifications, etc. And many of
these certifications are redundant. We’ve already been sending prescriptions
through Surescripts for 5 years using NCPDP script standard. Then we have to
certify on it. Same thing with labs and HL7 messaging. So, we’re repeating the

same lengthy tedious process we already did, just to certify on a test system,
meanwhile our functional eRx and lab order/results systems hum along in the
background. And of course there are differences (as they say in the industry, the
beauty of standards is that everyone can have their own), so, we don’t even use
exactly what we certify on.
If you want to know if you are hindering innovation (this question is answered
somewhere below), yes, you are. Additionally, you are helping industry giants to
monopolize, while crushing small businesses that might compete with them. For
them, I’m sure you’re a gift from heaven.
What the federal government should be doing at this point, is developing the
standards for data exchange, and enforcing the requirements that EHR vendors
provide data exchange (i.e. enforcing the information blocking requirements). In
my experience this hasn’t happened. What has happened is this- we spend
months and tens of thousands of dollars to develop HIE functionality and FHIR
apis. Then, we reach out to other healthcare systems so that we can connect to
their FHIR API, and they refuse. They say that the fhir api is only for patient facing
apps. Not true. So, we file information blocking requests, and nothing happens.
We filed in 2022. Nothing has happened. The ONC says “thanks for letting us
know- we’re deciding what we’re going to do”. What do they do? They shift
toward agreeing that fhir is really only about getting patients access to their
charts and apps they can run. Which has little value.
Certification requirements are also needlessly complex. Federal regulations state
that QRDA I, a ridiculously complex specification, must be adopted by hospital
EHR systems. We are ambulatory- but, we are also required to certify on the
QRDA I. So, I bring this up with the ONC. They say “sorry- that’s the way it is”
(clearly because they did the wrong thing in the first place). Even more
aggravating is that the responses to support requests come in unsigned emails.
No names, no titles, no contact information. You don’t know who you are talking
to, or who you might escalate to. I suspect that I’m talking to someone at MITRE,
which is making $100,000,000 designing and supporting these needlessly
complex systems.
As an example, let’s say a patient has a diagnosis of hypertension, ICD code I10.
Here is the data

Name=Essential (primary) hypertension.
ICD10=I10
Added=6/5/2025 10:30
AddedBy=2435678987
Status=Active
Here is how it is represented in the QRDA I (and roughly in the CDA);
<entry>
<act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
<!-- Problem Concern Act template -->
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.3"/>
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.3" extension="2015-08-01"/>
<id root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.0" extension="7fc48bde-ab26-45a7-8dfa-
113cca705428"/>
<code code="CONC" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.6" displayName="Concern"/>
<statusCode code="active"/>
<effectiveTime>
<low value="20160617"/>
<high nullFlavor="UNK"/>
</effectiveTime>
<author typeCode="AUT">
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.119"/>
<time value="20160617"/>
<assignedAuthor>
<id extension="106987" root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.3"/>
<code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.101"
codeSystemName="Health Care Provider Taxonomy" nullFlavor="UNK"/>
</assignedAuthor>
</author>
<entryRelationship typeCode="SUBJ">

<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
<!-- Problem observation template -->
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.4"/>
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.4" extension="2015-08-
01"/>
<id root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.0" extension="bc8dc8a4-02d0-
4177-8f2e-9e97931d0747"/>
<code code="55607006" displayName="Problem"
codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.96" codeSystemName="SNOMED CT">
<translation code="75326-9"
codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Problem"/>
</code>
<statusCode code="completed"/>
<effectiveTime>
<low value="20160617"/>
</effectiveTime>
<value xsi:type="CD" nullFlavor="OTH">
<originalText>
<reference value="#ProbID-2350037"/>
</originalText>
<translation xsi:type="CD" displayName="Essential (primary)
hypertension" code="I10" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.90" codeSystemName="ICD-10-CM"/>
</value>
<author typeCode="AUT">
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.119"/>
<time value="20160617"/>
<assignedAuthor>
<id extension="106987"
root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.3"/>
<code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.101"
codeSystemName="Health Care Provider Taxonomy" nullFlavor="UNK"/>
</assignedAuthor>
</author>

</observation>
</entryRelationship>
</act>
</entry>
<entry>
<act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
<!-- Problem Concern Act template -->
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.3"/>
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.3" extension="2015-08-01"/>
<id root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.0" extension="7fc48bde-ab26-45a7-8dfa-
113cca705428"/>
<code code="CONC" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.6" displayName="Concern"/>
<statusCode code="active"/>
<effectiveTime>
<low value="20160617"/>
<high nullFlavor="UNK"/>
</effectiveTime>
<author typeCode="AUT">
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.119"/>
<time value="20160617"/>
<assignedAuthor>
<id extension="106987" root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.3"/>
<code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.101"
codeSystemName="Health Care Provider Taxonomy" nullFlavor="UNK"/>
</assignedAuthor>
</author>
<entryRelationship typeCode="SUBJ">
<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
<!-- Problem observation template -->
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.4"/>
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.4" extension="2015-08-
01"/>

<id root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.0" extension="bc8dc8a4-02d0-
4177-8f2e-9e97931d0747"/>
<code code="55607006" displayName="Problem"
codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.96" codeSystemName="SNOMED CT">
<translation code="75326-9"
codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Problem"/>
</code>
<statusCode code="completed"/>
<effectiveTime>
<low value="20160617"/>
</effectiveTime>
<value xsi:type="CD" nullFlavor="OTH">
<originalText>
<reference value="#ProbID-2350037"/>
</originalText>
<translation xsi:type="CD" displayName="Essential (primary)
hypertension" code="I10" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.90" codeSystemName="ICD-10-CM"/>
</value>
<author typeCode="AUT">
<templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.119"/>
<time value="20160617"/>
<assignedAuthor>
<id extension="106987"
root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.3856.2.3"/>
<code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.101"
codeSystemName="Health Care Provider Taxonomy" nullFlavor="UNK"/>
</assignedAuthor>
</author>
</observation>
</entryRelationship>
</act>
</entry>

Are you kidding me? And, this specification is used to extract quality data and
send it to another system, when this isn’t something that needs to be done in the
ambulatory world. Just calculate the results of the measure, and send that to
another system. I challenge anyone to find any ambulatory EHR in the entire
country, after we’ve all been required to certify on this ridiculous specification in
an equally ridiculous manner using very bad software developed by a giant
consulting firm at I can’t imagine what cost, that actually uses it. And if they are
using it, well, there’s a much better way! Is anyone really understanding and
paying attention to what’s going on? Or have things spun out of control?
Some years ago, I responded to an RFI from the VA about putting in a scheduling
system. I don’t recall the exact numbers, but I do recall then when I divided the
overall cost (17 billion, I believe), by the number of people who would actually use
the system, it came out to about $135,000 per user. For a scheduling system. How
much should a scheduling system cost? I would say about $35 per user. And
that’s not at scale. I got a call from someone at VA (who incidentally didn’t give
their last name!), who asked if I minded if they presented my response to other
parties at the VA. Presumably, my politics aligned with theirs. When I see
numbers like these, and technology like that above, I don’t wonder why the
government thinks it’s going to cost that much. You’re getting taken for a ride.
--
Finally, if you really want to improve healthcare and decrease the costs, the
solution isn’t just technological. You need to make systemic changes, starting
with standing up to huge monied interests so that you can, for example, have
technicians do common surgeries, treat common conditions, deliver babies, etc.
(and soon enough, AI diagnose and create the plan, etc).
--
Please see below (in blue) some of my more specific responses to your
questions.
A. Definitions for Terms Used in This RFI
• Digital tools: web, mobile or other software applications, potentially leveraging
sensors, wearables or other hardware.
• Digital health products: defined as digital tools that support individual health
needs.
• Health management applications: Digital tools that leverage patients' data and
other information to support patients with health decision-making.

• Care navigation applications: Digital tools that help patients identify, select, and
access providers or auxiliary care services.
• Personal health record apps: Software applications that collect and organize an
individual's health records and provider encounter data for viewing, sharing, and
usage in digital health products.
B. Patients and Caregivers
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate
to use cases and workflows that involve patients and caregivers. While we certainly
want patients and caregivers to answer questions in this section (and in other sections)
from the patient/caregiver point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide their
viewpoints on the patient/caregiver workflows.
1. Patient Needs
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand
and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should
take?
First, the basics. Obviously, every patient should be able to go online, schedule an
appointment, communicate with the office, register on line, fill in questionnaires, get
reminders, cancel/rebook appointments, pay bills, etc. It would also be good to have a
process that makes sure up front that if a patient needs a referral or a prior auth, it
happens, so the provider gets paid and the patient DOESN’T get billed… So, better
integration between payer and portal could be useful, there’s very little of that today.
Second, yes, it’s time to get AI involved. So that patients can be triaged by AI, THEN
referred for testing they might need, then given treatment or referred to a specialist as
necessary.
Third, it would be great to have better apps for home management. When my mother
was living at home in her 90s, I put in cameras and it was a huge help. I even tried a
camera which was supposed to be able to detect falls using AI, but, it didn’t work.
Finally, as she moved to assisted living, I put cameras in her assisted living unit. Atria
then said this was not allowed (it was pretty obvious why, it was easy to see the poor
job they were doing that we were paying $20,000/month for). Cameras should not just
be allowed in assisted living. They should be mandatory.
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones'
health that can be enabled by digital health products?

Better ability for children (generally) to monitor / understand their parents care (and
frankly we’re going to need something other than children for the generation of childless
now maturing). And apps to automatically monitor elderly and infirm.
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things
you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be
supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future.
I’m hoping that by the time I’m 90, there will be a robot in my house that can bathe me,
assist me with toilet, notice when I’m suddenly confused, pick me up off the floor, and
call for help as necessary! And maybe push me down the stairs when the time comes…
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information
in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)?
If so, the only way is because someone is in an integrated healthcare system that is
using Epic. If there is but one provider on an independent system, then, no, they don’t
have a single patient portal. They might have, for example, have Apple health
attempting to reconcile their data, but, they won’t have access to each office for
communications, etc.
a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided?
The benefits would be convenience and ease of use and better healthcare and lower
costs and saved time.
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one
portal or system to access all such health information?
In every context.
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were
unavailable?
Yup. It’s very common that you can’t access your imaging studies (although again, you
don’t need to – but your SPECIALIST / SURGEON does).
What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones' complete health
information electronically and using it for managing health conditions or finding the best
care (for example, limitations in functionality, user friendliness, or access to basic
technology infrastructure)?
Long and short, 90 year olds can’t do it, 50 year olds can. So, 50 year olds do it for their
parents, sometimes. Bear in mind that a lot of kids don’t want to get that involved. The
system is supposed to be caring for their parents- that’s what it’s there for. Others want
to get very involved. When I signed up for my mom’s portal it was like I was a

peculiarity. Why else would I be getting connected directly to the tech people? Btw, of
course I had to lie and say that I was helping my mom sign up and of course I had to
have control of her email to finish off the process, which fortunately I had set up years
ago.
PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or personal health record
apps that would be useful to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers?
The more centralized, accurate, easy to use online information you have, the better.
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today?
Ha ha, the app itself is missing…
a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet?
Single centralized EHR should exist. Government failure is the reason it does not. Also,
living in a competitive system (that wants to monopolize patient information for
competitive reasons and to control / own the patient).
b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer?
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in
these digital health products?
I think capitalism works very well for disseminating products. Everything in America is
10% product and 90% marketing and sales. Let the industry go. They’ll find the needs,
they’ll make the products, and they’ll get them out there.
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products
on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not
approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if
there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program
design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products
(for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new
beneficiary communications)?
I don’t think CMS needs to intervene too much. Enough to make sure apps are safe and
their makers aren’t criminals or spies, but, otherwise I say let the market decide. For the
most part, it knows what contributes value.
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider
generated data on patients?
What do you know… a single record!

PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and
easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited
prior experience using digital tools and services?
What can I say? Some people know how to make a good computer system, some don’t.
The federal government certainly doesn’t. And all the “usability assessments” in the
world aren’t going to help that. So, I say, let things evolve.
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health
outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the
best means of doing so?
Doesn’t make too much sense to me. People are so focused on “data driven”
healthcare, that now they want data to prove that the software systems are making a
difference. In general, they are making a difference, because if they weren’t, no one
would be buying them. So, let the market decide on software. For the most part, the
more you have, the better. For all my friends saying that we need to look at studies
because they can disprove common sense conclusions, I’ve said that someone should
do a study to see what percent of common sense decisions, especially when it comes to
software, are actually correct. If it’s 80%, we can stop trying to analyze everything and
charge on.
2. Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients
or their caregivers or both?
Most of what patients need- not enough of what providers need!
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and
other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims
data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
Most of the above is hard for developers to get access to. By the way, when app
vendors want access to claims data, it’s often BEFORE billing it, not after…
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of
highest value, and why?
Again, consolidated data from all sources.
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility,
interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more
meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence?
Technical, operational, regulatory, enforcement…

PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient demographic,
Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D), what additional CMS data sources
do developers view as most valuable for inclusion in the API to enable more useful
digital products for patients and caretakers?
a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today?
Why are we using oAuth? Just give the client a username and password, and have the
host check every time, or, give a token as oauth does now, but, not a ridiculously
complex token with all sorts of useless nonsense embedded in it. Just a long random
number. You don’t need to have the scope included in the request every time. The host
has to know and enforce the scope for each client anyway- so, why does the client send
the scope with the request? It actually just confuses things, and eventually you’ll have
some developers accidentally use the requested scope as the allowed scope.
99% of all healthcare interfaces:
First party: Hello- we need this (something) from you.
Second party: Ok, here’s an api we set up so you can get it.
First party: Ok great, thanks, I’m getting it now.
This is done routinely, and it’s not that hard.
b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API experience?
c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API?
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common AgreementTM
(TEFCATM) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real
world?
a. Please provide specific examples.
b. What changes would you suggest?
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA?
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access
and existing exchange purposes?
e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could
improve data access and integration?
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be consolidated?
g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread patient
access to their health information?

If every EHR had a FHIR api, and actually allowed others to access it, we’d be largely
there, at least more than sufficient for round one.
PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance
patient access to health information in the real world?
Not that valuable. They aren’t used that much in the small practice world.
a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?
b. What changes would you suggest?
Move to the APIs.
c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe should
be propagated across markets?
d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities facilitating data exchange and
broader frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health information
networks, TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)?
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients and
caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate
barriers to competition among providers or both?
a. Examples may include the following:
(1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods.
(2) Viewing provider schedule availability.
(3) Using third-party apps for appointment management.
(4) Accessing patient-facing quality metrics.
(5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs.
b. What use cases are possible today?
c. What should be possible in the near future?
d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve?
3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking
complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact?
Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange?

Well, one thing that might help is that you actually do something when someone reports
blocking.
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me,
other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use digital
identity credentials?
This is a global problem (i.e. extending beyond healthcare). But, it would be nice to
have digital verifiable credentials. For now, the best option is probably just your cell is
your unique identifier… (all this concern about interception of text messages is mostly
mitigated in 5G and above). I’m not sure how to tackle it. People want their anonymity,
and, there are reasons for that. For the time being, the best solution might just be “your
cell number is your identity”.
b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were
more widely used?
Faster check in, and, more importantly, the ability to reliably map records across
domains instead of relying on very sketchy matching algorithms followed by manual
intervention.
c. What are the potential downsides?
Loss of privacy or anonymity when desired?
d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information?
Again I think reliable matching would be the biggest impact. Speeding check in is good,
but, check in doesn’t take that long.
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving
adoption?
Again I would say let the market handle it.
f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials?
Require them? Only don’t…
C. Providers
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate
to use cases and workflows that involve providers. While we certainly want providers to
answer questions in this section (and in other sections) from the provider point of view,
we also invite all stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the provider workflows as
appropriate.

1. Digital Health Apps
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in
rural areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for
their patients?
Honestly, there aren’t that many apps that make a huge difference for patients. Maybe
some basic home monitoring (asthma (spirometry), bp, temp, heartbeat regularity, 02
sat to some degree. Pain.). Remember, people want to keep things simple. And the
healthcare system should too.
a. What are the current obstacles?
b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products in
the provision of their care?
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a digital product
by a patient?
Not taking kickbacks?
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization
of the most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality
measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these
obstacles be mitigated?
PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural
areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage
format (for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes,
structured data fields)? Please address all of the following:
a. Current challenges in accessing different data formats.
There should not be any.
b. Impact on patient care quality.
Important
c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility.
Just the usual interoperability barriers.
d. Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable.
Documents have a lot of value, but, there aren’t that many formats commonly used in
healthcare… text, html, word/rtf, excel, pdf, tiff cover the majority of those used, outside

of actual images, which interestingly aren’t mentioned above. The privacy implications
aren’t any different than the privacy implications of anything else in healthcare. They
are important, because often documents carry very important information (we have
thousands of faxed and scanned referrals in our system, millions of labs). Asking about
the cost implications is indicative to me of how out of touch the government is; it’s
extremely easy, and cheap, to securely manage any quantity of documents. Today,
radiological images are the only type of image/document which take any significant
quantity of storage. And, typically, there is no need to exchange these images. In almost
all cases, only their interpretation, a tiny text document, is shared. If one does need to
view the image, it would be nice to have a link to the image; and again, even large
studies are easily transferred and managed on an individual basis today.
e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs.
Same priority.
PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be needed for
patients' third-party digital products to have access to administrative workflows, such as
auto-populating intake forms, viewing provider information and schedules, and making
and modifying an appointment?
All this should be done in the patient portal. And most of it already is.
2. Data Exchange
PR-5. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you already support or
utilize in your provider organization's systems, directly or through an intermediary? For
each, describe the transaction model, use case, whether you use individual queries or
bulk transactions, and any constraints:
a. Patient Access API.
Supported not utilized.
b. Standardized API for Patient and Population Services.
Supported not utilized.
c. Provider Directory API.
No support.
d. Provider Access API.
No support
e. Payer-to-Payer API.

No support
f. Prior Authorization API.
Supported, infrequently utilized. Medications only.
g. Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based access filtering for population-specific
queries?
Supported not utilized.
h. SMART on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and standalone app access?
What does the process for application deployment entail?
Supported, minimally utilized. Launch is seamless.
i. CDS Hooks (for clinical decision support integrations).
Supported, selectively utilized.
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health information?
Good in theory, not used by us yet. We are getting ready to use it. It’s expensive. It
would be nice if we could easily certify as a QHIN ourselves, instead of such a complex
process. Or skip the QHIN and go straight peer to peer via fhir + directory. We typically
don’t need to access that many peers.
a. Please provide specific examples.
b. What changes would you suggest?
Open, easier to certify, free.
c. What other options are available outside of TEFCA?
Careequality, Commonwell, eHealth Exchange, HIEs, Direct
d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that could be
consolidated?
Direct messaging is too difficult to use. Too much certificate swapping, complex server.
Many providers still are not aware of direct, and continue to fax. But fax is all electronic
now anyway, so, it’s not that big of a deal, just slow and more expensive.
Overall, it would be good to just have distributed peer to peer connectivity but with a
central directory (i.e. TEFCA) and automation (something to find the patient data
wherever it is, pull it, centralize it, display it). Again, this is all in the face of the no
centralized record in the first place shortcoming.

PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality,
timely, and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital
product ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be
mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics that providers are
already motivated to optimize for that could be reused for, or combined with, efforts
needed to support interoperability?
Well, again, a single centralized database would solve all these problems and facilitate
real time exchange. Short of that, just keep doing what you’re doing…
PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data
responsibilities of providers?
Consolidate the measures so they are all treated the same way under the same
programs. There are several different measure sources, and one department has no
idea what the other is doing. Electronic measure definitions for EVERY measure so they
can easily be imported to EHRs for calculating. Simplify certification and submission for
vendors. More measures that really apply to the specialties. Right now I have
dermatologists asking about depression… ridiculous…
a. What would be the benefits and downsides of using Bulk FHIR data exports from
EHRs to CMS to simplify clinical quality data submissions? Can CMS reduce the burden
on providers by performing quality metrics calculations leveraging Bulk FHIR data
exports?
The problem is that if you centralize the data, you won’t have real time feedback on the
providers side while they are working. That being said, you could potentially do that with
an API to the centralized data. If you start doing bulk exports, then you’re starting the
build the centralized repository I’m talking about anyway. Security better be pretty good,
because government systems get hacked all the time. The nice thing about centralized
is that you can check if the measure is met across the spectrum. For example, if a
patient got a vaccine elsewhere, the primary (and the patient!) might not know about it
and therefore not get credit for the patient being vaccinated.
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of providers
be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed?
One thing that CMS could do is go after the low hanging fruit FIRST. For example,
Medicare already has CPTs and ICDs (i.e. patient diagnosis). Pull med data from
Surescripts, and then you can join diagnoses on that to see if patients are on the best
meds. Then, pull lab data so that you can do quality measures against labs. These
measures alone would be enough to get you started. You want to automate quality
measure tracking and calculation and submission, so providers don’t have to deal with
it. Just notify them when there’s a problem.

It would be great to a have a “healthcare central command and control” that data comes
in to, and recommendations come out of (and fraud is more easily tracked). Don’t do it
wrong, though, or you’ll have a justified rebellion.
c. Are there requirements CMS should consider for data registries to support digital
quality measurement in a more efficient manner? Are there requirements CMS should
consider for data registries that would support access to real-time quality data for
healthcare providers to inform clinical care in addition to simplifying reporting
processes?
I’m not sure why registries need to be involved. Just run the measures against the data
in the providers EHR. It’s relatively simple. We’ve been doing it for 15+ years. We were
also involved in the registry program for a number of years until it because possible to
submit directly via the CMS API. Tedious program, and not well run.
3. Digital Identity
PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials (for
example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of
proprietary logins that need to be tracked for each provider relationship?
Every time something like this gets implemented, some company tries to monopolize
the process. Then, next thing you know, you’re paying “only” $1 per login to some
company, as mandated by the fed, with no recourse until they finally figure out how
corrupt and expensive it is 20 years later and change it.
a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set of
trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for each
provider?
b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience and access to digital
health products and services that may lead to significant improvements in health?
PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me,
other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs):
a. What are the challenges and benefits for providers?
b. How would requiring their use improve access to health information?
c. What are the potential downsides?
d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a nationwide provider directory?
e. How could digital identity implementation improve provider data flow?
f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data flow?

PR-11. How could members of trust communities [3] (for example, QHINs, participants
and subparticipants in TEFCA, which requires Identity Assurance Level 2 (IAL2) via
Credential Service Providers (CSPs)) better support the goals of reduced provider and
patient burden while also enhancing identity management and security?
4. Information Blocking
PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information
blocking exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subparts B
through D) to further the access, exchange, and use of electronic health information
(EHI) and to promote market competition?
Long and short, if EHR A wants to connect to EHR B because B has records on A, then,
A and B should be required to permit and establish this connectivity.
PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(3)),
without a current information blocking disincentive established by CMS, what would be
the most effective disincentive for that category of provider?
Significant fines?
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance
or negatively impact data exchange?
By actually doing something when someone does submit, rather than nothing for 3
years. Speaking from experience here…
D. Payers
PA-1. What policy or technical limitations do you see in TEFCA? What changes would
you suggest to address those limitations? To what degree do you expect these
limitations to hinder participation in TEFCA?
PA-2. How can CMS encourage payers to accelerate the implementation and utilization
of APIs for patients, providers, and other payers, similar to the Blue Button 2.0 and Data
at the Point of Care APIs released by CMS?
PA-3. How can CMS encourage payers to accept digital identity credentials (for
example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of
proprietary logins?
PA-4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide provider directory that
included FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials?
PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical quality data
responsibilities of providers?

a. How interested are payers and providers in EHR technology advances that enable
bulk extraction of clinical quality data from EHRs to payers to allow them to do the
calculations instead of the provider-side technology?
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of providers
to both CMS and other payers be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed?
Are there technologies payers might leverage that would support access to real time
quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical care in addition to simplifying
reporting processes?
PA-7. How can CMS encourage payers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance
or negatively impact data exchange?
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate
to use cases and workflows that involve technology vendors, data providers, and
networks. While we certainly want technology vendors, data providers, and networks to
answer questions in this section (and in other sections) from their point of view, we also
invite all stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the technology vendor, data
provider, and network use cases as appropriate.
1. Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
and caregivers?
Why are you just focused on Medicare? I get it, that’s what you pay for. But, every
commercial patient eventually becomes a Medicare one (with any luck!). So, think about
how you can encourage development / adoption for everyone. Then, to encourage,
DON’T require ridiculous certifications. Please. I’m not saying some regulation isn’t
necessary, it is. Just not overregulation.
Can something be done about risk?
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
Did I mention how nice a centralized, consolidated data set would be? Perhaps make it
an option first, something developers can use if they want to. Like, you can keep all your
patient data in your own database, but you can also use ours, free! If you use ours,
then, you’ll be part of an interactive charting experiment, where numerous parties
update the same chart. I bet it could take off.

b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue
Button 2.0 API?
Do you mean non CMS sources? Surescripts med history, lab data. Complete chart…
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?
Former 2 easy, complete chart is information blocked.
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies
to unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
2. Digital Identity
TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
a. What are the challenges and benefits?
b. How would requiring digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybersecurity and data
exchange?
c. What impact would mandatory use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol have?
3. Technical Standards and Certification
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available
APIs over proprietary APIs?
Make the standards less ridiculous (I think FHIR is already a bit better than CCDA and
QRDA, so, getting there). Require the use of the standards for exchange (but, people
will use them- everyone adopted HL7 easily enough (although I don’t know what it took
to get there, because that was before even my time!). But there was no government
involvement. The industry did it themselves. If you develop a good standard, it will be
used.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
Yes, it would be useful- if FHIR endpoints didn’t refuse to connect, and government
takes action when they do… Fed should publish. Cost should be much less than MITRE
tells you…
If you had such a nationwide directory, TEFCA/QHINs might not even be necessary. In
general, we know what other systems we need to connect to. It’s not all of them. We
just do it as we go along. It would be nice to be able to query every system for each
patient- but, you’d almost need some sort of intermediary branching approach to

properly do that. It’s probably not necessary. Overkill. Ask the patient in their portal what
doctors they’ve seen or hospitals been to, check a directory to see what the EHR is for
those providers / hospitals, query them. Something like that.
TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform?
Do you not know this? Are you asking to see if
a. What existing alternatives should be considered?
b. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that should be
consolidated?
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are
its limitations?
a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
No- but you can have a very functional subset that meets most needs. Remember- low
hanging fruit first. Don’t build an aircraft carrier when all you need is a drone.
b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the way
it is utilized?
Limitations
c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping
challenges? How could such challenges be addressed?
Add more. Just don’t require everyone to certify on them. There if you need them.
That’s how standards are supposed to work.
d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but
less structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more
processing by the receiver?
No
TD-8. What are the most effective certification criteria and standards under the ONC
Health IT Certification Program?
None of them.
TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT:
a. What are the benefits of redefining certification to prioritize API-enabled
capabilities over software functionality?

Good idea. Software is and has been ahead of the requirements for a long time. So the
requirements have been redundant, expensive, time consuming.
b. What would be the drawbacks?
None. Except removing the competitive walls that we all had to clear for new
competitors.
c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certification criteria to require APIs to
consistently support exchanging data from all aspects of the patient's chart (for
example, faxed records, free text, discrete data)?
For certain things (problems, meds, allergies, labs) you are requesting discrete coded
data (although many labs are still in faxes; probably good to eliminate that problem at
the root level and require labs to provide hl7 interfaces which most of them support but
don’t mandate). For documents, it’s easy. Just query for list of available documents,
then, if you want to see one, pull it and view it. This is a very simple problem to solve.
d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to
API-based data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
FORCE THEM TO RESPOND. After that, just let the receiver complain if what they
need isn’t there. Then enforce including that if it’s part of the spec. And btw, yes,
insurance IS part of the requirement. I’m not sure if Epic still does this, but they probably
do. They used to obfuscate part of the claim numbers.
e. How could EHRs capable of bulk data transfer be used to reduce the burden on
providers for reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are
needed to show benefit? What concerns are there with this approach?
See comments above. I have mixed feelings about this. Part of me says calculate in the
local EHR, submit the numbers only. This way it is easy to see if your system is really
capturing what it should be and can provide real time notifications for providers.
Probably the better option. Dumping everything to Medicare is another approach, but I
can only imagine the headaches there. An auditing nightmare. Especially once you’re
mixing data across parties. Maybe make it an option? And better make it experimental
at first…
TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification
Program, what further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implement the 21st Century
Cures Act's API condition of certification (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv)) that requires a
developer's APIs to allow health information to be accessed, exchanged, and used
without special effort, including providing access to all data elements of a patient's
electronic health record to the extent permissible under applicable privacy laws?

Again I think this is an enforcement issue, of which there is currently 0. One thing that
would be nice is if EHR vendors could become certified parties. Then if we have that
certificate, we can connect to outside APIs without further certification with the other
vendor. I will say that the idea of having a kazillion records connected to ours and
making requests constantly makes me a little nervous (i.e. system slowdowns, endless
support requests). And sooner or later someone is going to get into the mix who doesn’t
belong in there. People could start lobbing support requests just as a competitive
measure…
Right now as mentioned, we typically know who we need to connect to. It would be nice
if we could just contact those parties and request a connection and get it; but NOT
query a QHIN or TEFCA to search a thousand installations to locate a patient…
All the multiplicative permutations or connections are another reason a single,
centralized, consolidated record is a much better solution.
TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products certified
through the ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the capability
to perform an electronic health information export or “EHI export” for a single patient as
well as for patient populations (45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)). Such health IT developers are
also required to publicly describe the format of the EHI export. Notably, how EHI export
was accomplished was left entirely to the health IT developer. Now that this capability
has been in production for over a year, CMS and ASTP/ONC seek input on the
following:
a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requirements for
EHI export?
Aren’t most people actually already using the CCDA format requested? I even think I
recall that it’s required for certification even though it’s theoretically not… (yes, there are
things like this as part of the certification process).
b. Are there specific workflow aspects that could be improved?
Not really. I think scheduled export is fine.
c. Should CMS consider policy changes to support this capability's use?
No
4. Data Exchange
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what
criteria or metrics should CMS consider?

TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing
access to the entirety of a patient's electronic health information (EHI)?
Just further progress toward a totally integrated, smooth healthcare experience.
a. What are the primary obstacles to this?
The information is still all over the place, unreconciled, so it has to be gathered and
reconciled, which is an impossible expectation… no one has the time (or the
knowledge) to do it. I’m not calling another doctor to verify a diagnosis in question. I
don’t have time, they don’t have time. AI might solve, it might not.
Also, obviously, security. How do you trust the party you are connecting to? Businesses
are going to want access to the data too, some for “good” purposes, many just for
marketing, and some for even worse reasons (insurance denial, extortion, etc).
b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI, especially given
more flexible data processing capabilities today?
I think almost all the chart can be represented in USCDI, possibly with some custom
extensions as necessary.
TD-14. Regarding networks' use of FHIR APIs:
a. How many endpoints is your network connected to for patient data sharing?
What types, categories, geographies of endpoints do you cover? Are they
searchable by National Provider Identifier (NPI) or organizational ID?
We share patient data with a few 3rd parties via HL7 interfaces or direct messaging, but
all of the FHIR API requests we have made have been denied. I don’t know that the
endpoints are searchable; I think that would need to be in the directory before
connecting.
b. How are these connections established (for example, FHIR (g)(10) endpoints,
TEFCA/Integrating the Health Enterprise (IHE) XCA, or proprietary APIs)?
Direct messaging + Proprietary only atm.
c. Do you interconnect with other networks? Under what frameworks (for example,
TEFCA, private agreements)?
Minimally. Private agreements only.
TD-15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs:
a. How would increased use of bulk FHIR improve use cases and data flow?
Not much for us. We’re not a data analysis company.

b. What are the potential disadvantages of their use?
Slowing source system, theft of data.
TD-16. What are the tradeoffs of maintaining point-to-point models vs. shared network
infrastructure?
P2p initially easier but gets more complex as you scale. Shared is nice, but people
aren’t playing by the rules.
a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participation?
Yes, but the current rules are being ignored.
b. What changes would improve alignment (for example, API unification, reciprocal
access)?
TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in
ensuring viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough supply and
demand, that results in usage and outcomes?
I think they should mandate the standard, and mandate/enforce the response to
requests, but not a lot more. Parties can work among themselves to implement the
interfaces.
5. Compliance
TD-18. Information blocking:
a. Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of practices
you have experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please include
both situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a
failure or unusable response?
1) Refusals to swap certificates for direct message exchange!
2) Refusals to download app identifier to Epic so that we can connect to their FHIR
apis.
b. What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS implement to further
discourage healthcare providers from engaging in information blocking practices?
Fines? A friendly call from the ONC? Not necessarily in that order…
c. Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition of
information blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act
(PHSA) that lack information blocking disincentives?
There’s no enforcement. The big guys don’t care. They are all stalling by doing wait and
see.

TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers,
including CMS?
d. What would further motivate solution development?
F. Value-Based Care Organizations
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate
to use cases and workflows that involve value-based care organizations. While we
certainly want value-based care organizations to answer questions in this section (and
in other sections) from the value-based care provider point of view, we also invite all
stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the value-based care workflows as
appropriate.
1. Digital Health Adoption
VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations
(ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital
health management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with
their patients? What are the current obstacles preventing broader digital product
adoption for patients in ACOs?
VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population
health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement,
and patient engagement be better integrated into APM requirements?
VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event notification,
data extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement, access to claims data,
attribution and patient ID matching, remote device interoperability, or other patient
empowerment tools.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based
care arrangements?
VB-4. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value-
based care arrangements?
2. Compliance and Certification

VB-5. In your experience, how do current certification criteria and standards
incorporated into the ONC Health IT Certification Program support value-based care
delivery?
VB-6. What specific health information technology capabilities that could benefit APMs
are not currently addressed by existing certification criteria and standards that should be
included under the ONC Health IT Certification Program?
VB-7. How can technology requirements for APMs, established through CEHRT or
other pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility?
VB-8. How can other HHS policies supplement CEHRT requirements to better optimize
the use of digital health products in APMs? As an example, requirements under the
Conditions of Participation for hospitals (42 CFR 482.24(d)) require hospitals to transmit
electronic patient event notifications to community providers. What barriers are in place
preventing APM participants from receiving the same notifications?
VB-9. What technology requirements should be different for APM organizations when
comparing to non-APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and
interoperability)?
VB-10. In the Calendar Year (CY) 2024 Physician Fee Schedule final rule (88 FR
79413), CMS established that CEHRT requirements for Advanced APMs beyond those
in the “Base EHR” definition should be flexible based on what is applicable to the APM
that year based on the area of clinical practice. What certification criteria should CMS
identify under this flexibility for specific Advanced APMs, or for Advanced APMs in
general? Are there specific flexibilities or alternatives to consider for smaller or
resource-constrained (such as rural) providers in meeting CEHRT requirements without
compromising quality of care or availability of performance data?
3. Technical Standards
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing
value-based care programs?
VB-12. What technology standardization would preserve program-specific flexibility
while promoting innovation in APM technology implementation?
VB-13. What improvements to existing criteria and standards would better support
value-based care capabilities while reducing provider burden?
VB-14. How could implementing digital identity credentials improve value-based care
delivery and outcomes?
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve
access to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data

elements would be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its
effectiveness?
III. Collection of Information Requirements
Please note, this is a request for information (RFI) only. In accordance with the
implementing regulations of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), specifically 5
CFR 1320.3(h)(4), this general solicitation is exempt from the PRA. Facts or opinions
submitted in response to general solicitations of comments from the public, published in
the Federal Register or other publications, regardless of the form or format thereof,
provided that no person is required to supply specific information pertaining to the
commenter, other than that necessary for self-identification, as a condition of the
agency's full consideration, are not generally considered information collections and
therefore not subject to the PRA.
This RFI is issued solely for information and planning purposes; it does not constitute a
Request for Proposal (RFP), applications, proposal abstracts, or quotations. This RFI
does not commit the U.S. Government to contract for any supplies or services or make
a grant award. Further, CMS and ASTP/ONC are not seeking proposals through this
RFI and will not accept unsolicited proposals. Responders are advised that the U.S.
Government will not pay for any information or administrative costs incurred in response
to this RFI; all costs associated with responding to this RFI will be solely at the
interested party's expense. CMS and ASTP/ONC note that not responding to this RFI
does not preclude participation in any future procurement, if conducted. It is the
responsibility of the potential responders to monitor this RFI announcement for
additional information pertaining to this request. In addition, CMS and ASTP/ONC note
that we will not respond to questions about potential policy issues raised in this RFI.
CMS and ASTP/ONC will actively consider input as we develop future regulatory
proposals or future subregulatory policy guidance. We may or may not choose to
contact individual responders. Such communications would be for the sole purpose of
clarifying statements in the responders' written responses. Contractor support personnel
may be used to review responses to this RFI. Responses to this notice are not offers
and cannot be accepted by the Government to form a binding contract or issue a grant.
Information obtained as a result of this RFI may be used by the Government for
program planning on a non-attribution basis. Respondents should not include any
information that might be considered proprietary or confidential. This RFI should not be
construed as a commitment or authorization to incur cost for which reimbursement
would be required or sought. All submissions become U.S. Government property and
will not be returned. In addition, we may publicly post the public comments received or a
summary of those public comments.

Stephanie Carlton, Deputy Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services, approved this document on May 9, 2025.
Steven Posnack, Acting Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, Acting National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology, approved this document on May 6,
2025.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.,
Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services.
Thanks for considering!