June 16, 2025
The Honorable Mehmet Oz, MD The Honorable Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Administrator Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services National Coordinator for Health Information
Department of Health and Human Services Technology
7500 Security Boulevard 330 C Street, SW
Baltimore, MD 21244 Washington, DC 20201
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
Dear Administrators Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane:
The National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) is the leading national membership
organization dedicated to promoting Community Health Centers (CHCs) (also known as Federally
Qualified Health Centers or health centers) as the Employer, Provider, and Partner of choice in all
communities, as well as the foundation of the primary health care system in America.
Community Health Centers are the best, most innovative, and resilient part of our nation’s health system.
For nearly sixty years, health centers have provided high-quality, comprehensive, affordable primary and
preventive care. In addition to medical services, CHCs provide dental, behavioral health, pharmacy, vision,
and other essential health services to America’s most medically underserved communities in urban, rural,
suburban, mountain, frontier, and island communities. Today, health centers serve more than 32.5 million
people, or at least 1 in 10 Americans, at over 16,000 locations, ensuring patients receive the care they need
and pay what they can based on a sliding fee scale.
NACHC maintains its role as the national voice for health centers and believes that high-quality primary
health care is essential in creating healthy communities and preventing chronic conditions. The collective
mission and mandate of NACHC and the 1,496 health centers nationwide is to close the primary care gap
and provide access to high-quality, cost-effective primary and preventative medical care.
NACHC appreciates the opportunity to engage in this Request for Information (RFI) to share our
perspective on how the Administration can leverage technology to improve the lives of Medicare
beneficiaries. Over the past decade, the number of health center Medicare patients has increased
significantly, from 1.5 million in 2010 to over 3.3 million in 2023. Medicaid patients comprise 11% of the
patient’s health centers.1 Health centers play an integral role in helping lower out-of-pocket costs for
Medicare patients. Costs for health center Medicare patients ($2,370) are 10% lower than physician office
patients ($2,667) and 30% lower than outpatient clinics.2 This could be attributed to the health center model
of care that strives to provide Medicare patients with affordable and high-quality care.
1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in these digital
health products?
1 https://data.hrsa.gov/tools/data-reporting/program-data/national
2 https://data.hrsa.gov/tools/data-reporting/program-data/national

a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products
on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving
in the sense of a coverage determination)?
NACHC recommends CMS work closely with the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) for all digital health
products, with the majority of primary end-users of these products being in the community health space but
avoid rigid “approval” processes. This may be outside of the agency’s scope, so focusing on
“recommended” or “validated” lists will be helpful for health centers that work with these vendors and can
utilize these digital health products. As the FDA is the sole federal agency that approves and regulates
digital health products that fall under its definition of a “medical device,”3 CMS has a pivotal role in
validation and curation.
What criteria should be used if there is a review process?
NACHC endorses using a tiered system based on existing frameworks, such as the Digital Medicine Society
/ DiME’s Patient-Centered Framework, to assess digital health technologies while adhering to required
interoperability standards (e.g., FHIR and related terminology standards). We recommend prioritizing the
following criteria regarding their impact on health centers.
1. Health Parity: Demonstrated effectiveness across populations, including people with varying levels of
digital literacy, language proficiency, and socioeconomic status. Digital health tools should consider
that people from any background should benefit from them and be fine-tuned so that effectiveness
remains high, regardless of who uses them.
2. Usability: Assessment through user-centered or human-centered design principles, which involve
patients and end-users in the development process, reflective of the CHC patient populations. As
mentioned above, health centers provide care for all types of patients; whether rural or urban,
individuals with Limited English Proficiency, young or old, these devices should be easily usable by
any patient.
3. Security & Privacy: Compliance with HIPAA and emerging data governance standards. Over the past
12 months, excluding the Change Healthcare breach, nearly six million people (5,992,343) have been
affected by large healthcare data breaches every month.4 As more digital health tools come onto the
market and become integrated into clinical records, patient privacy, and data protection need to be
integral parts of any tool approved by the FDA.
4. Clinical Validity: Peer-reviewed publications and evidence suggest that the technology meaningfully
addresses a clinical need and improves health outcomes, demonstrating statistical significance.
NACHC recommends CMS look to the Responsible AI Guide published by the Coalition for Health AI
(CHAI).5 Given artificial intelligence’s growing usage in all healthcare, if digital health tools draw upon
AI, this guide will be useful to ensure that any AI technologies used in healthcare are reliable, safe, and
effective. They combine existing standards into a coherent framework and provide practical considerations
for applying them in day-to-day operations. The guide emphasizes tangible considerations for all
stakeholders involved in the health ecosystem, ensuring that AI implementation is fair, transparent, safe,
and beneficial. A significant component of the guide is its lifecycle approach to AI development and
deployment in healthcare. This approach begins with defining the problem and planning AI solutions,
followed by the ethical and effective design of AI systems. Practical engineering and development phases
ensure reliability and safety, which are comprehensively evaluated before deployment. A critical element
of the Responsible AI Guide is the emphasis on independent review. This ensures that AI solutions undergo
3 https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/products-and-medical-procedures
4 https://www.hipaajournal.com/april-2025-healthcare-data-breach-report/
5 https://chai.org/responsible-ai-guide/
2

rigorous evaluation by external experts to maintain high safety standards, effectiveness, and ethical
compliance. The independent review process is designed to build trust and credibility in AI solutions used
in healthcare, fostering broader acceptance and adoption. The guide also includes a detailed focus on
privacy and cybersecurity. It integrates the NIST Privacy Framework and Cybersecurity Framework to help
organizations manage privacy and security risks effectively.
a. What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient and
caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example, enhancements to data access,
reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary communications)?
NACHC recommends CMS and ASTP/ONC prioritize enhancing communication to Medicare patients
using trusted messengers, such as health centers and community-based organizations (CBOs), that offer
digital health literacy training. Health centers are integrated into their communities; their boards are
majority patient governed and commonly employ members straight from the communities they serve. They
are well-positioned to help enhance the use of digital health products. Health centers do need to be
recognized and reimbursed adequately to help finance the effort involved in supporting patient onboarding
and ongoing technical assistance. We ask CMS to explore reimbursement adjustments to encourage patient
engagement in programs, potentially through virtual care codes or covered digital therapeutic benefits. For
instance, this reimbursement could be time-based, such as 10-15 minutes to cover the provider’s time
explaining how to use the technology. Reimbursement would enable an appropriate staff member, like a
medical assistant, community health worker (CHWs), or a similar role, to spend the necessary time with
the patient, assessing barriers to utilization, ensuring access, and training on how to use the technology and
tools available to improve health care communication. This will result in more efficient, effective care that
improves access and reduces the likelihood of inappropriate utilization of costly hospital and emergency
services. Additionally, we recommend that the agencies highly consider communication mediums utilized
by beneficiaries outside of required internet access. The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates that
22.3% of Americans in rural areas and over 27% of Americans living in Tribal lands lack adequate internet
coverage.6 NACHC believes the availability of low-bandwidth health devices is crucial to ensure that rural
Americans can successfully use them.
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated data on
patients?
NACHC sees timely data access requiring a multi-pronged approach. We recommend that standardized
APIs, particularly FHIR, be foundational, but must be accompanied by:
1. Harmonized Patient Identifiers: Addressing patient matching across systems remains a critical
barrier. Investment in a robust Master Patient Index (MPI) strategy across HIEs and providers is
essential while utilizing technologies that protect patient information through privacy-preserving
record linkage (PPRL) and others. This will ensure that a health center has a fuller picture of its
patients, as they are able to access all the patients’ records through the directory7, which will lead
to more comprehensive care.
2. Robust Data Quality Governance: CMS should incentivize and potentially audit data quality
within submitting organizations. Poor data quality undermines the value of data access.
6https://www.usda.gov/sustainability/infrastructure/broadband#:~:text=Unfortunately%2C%2022.3%20percent%20
of%20Americans,by%20the%20Federal%20Communications%20Commission.
7 https://www.4medica.com/blog_insights/what-is-a-master-patient-
index/#:~:text=Consider%20the%20long%2Dterm%20benefits%20and%20cost%2Dsaving%20opportunities,reduce
d%20duplicate%20records%2C%20and%20enhanced%20patient%20safety.
3

3. Integration of Non-Clinical Social Factors (NCSF): Even with FHIR, current data sharing often
lacks comprehensive NCSF data. CMS needs to actively promote and audit the required adoption
of standard terminologies for NCSF data elements (e.g., ICD-10-CM Z-codes, SNOMED-CT,
LOINC, value sets from the Gravity Project FHIR accelerator) and incentivize their inclusion in
NCSF data exchange workflows with CBOs.
4. Consent Management Technologies: Implement robust and patient-friendly mechanisms for data
sharing consent aligned with TEFCA principles.
c. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and easy to use for
Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience using
digital tools and services?
Health centers serve a large number of individuals with multiple risk factors impacting digital literacy: age,
lower education levels, language barriers, and cognitive impairments. NACHC recommends that digital
health products should include certain features to best serve the medically underserved patients health
centers see, including:
• Multi-Lingual Support: By law, health centers are required to provide translation services to serve
our patients and meet community needs. Out of the 32.5 million patients served by health centers,
8.64 million are best served in a language other than English.8 In order for health center patients to
use digital health tools, we recommend that CMS look beyond basic translation and consider
contextual competency interfaces and support materials to meet all patients’ levels of
understanding. All products could leverage data captured on “preferred language” and utilize
language standards (e.g., RFC 5646 and ISO 639-3).
• Simplified Interfaces: Health center patients often have lower digital literacy and lower health
literacy. To best serve patients, we recommend digital health product designs that avoid complex
navigation, jargon, and excessive features. We also recommend that CMS ensure any digital health
tool has been validated through a user interface (UI)/user experience (UX) assessment framework,
as that will evaluate the UI/UX quality said tool. This includes gathering user feedback and
analyses to identify usability issues, enhance design, and lead to a positive user experience.9
• Low-Bandwidth Compatibility: Recognizing that many medically underserved populations
served by health centers lack reliable high-speed internet, in urban and rural areas, we recommend
that “lightweight” versions of applications be available, meaning they take up less bandwidth, or
SMS-based options, are essential. Broadband is considered a superdeterminant of health due to its
significant impact on education and employment opportunities.
• Accessibility for patients with disabilities: Adherence to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
(WCAG version 2.2) guidelines is crucial, including screen reader compatibility, adjustable font
sizes, and alternative input methods. This will ensure easier access to digital health products for
patients and their caregivers.
8 HRSA 2023 UDS Data
9 https://reloadux.com/blog/ui-ux-design-evaluation-methods-for-usability-
testing/#:~:text=What%20is%20UI/UX%20Testing,user%20experience%20of%20a%20design.
4

• Integrated support: Health centers want to partner with the government in increasing the use of
these digital health technologies to enhance access to care. In that pursuit, health centers must be
equipped to provide on-site technical support and training to address individual patient needs. This
necessitates dedicated staffing and resources. We recommend reimbursement outside the health
center’s bundled encounter rate to work with the patient to access their data. We expand upon this
rationale further below.
Remote Patient Monitoring (RPM) uses digital health tools to monitor a patient’s condition; NACHC
recommends CMS continue to invest in patients’ ability to utilize RPM. Both health centers and their
patients continue to report positive experiences with RPM. It has helped increase patient self-sufficiency
and allowed patients to gain confidence using these self-measurement tools. Many health centers have
shifted to incorporating this model and using remote monitoring technology in general to streamline
communication and access for patients. Furthermore, health centers have been able to reimagine preventive
care and chronic disease management with at-home care utilizing remote patient monitoring. With many
U.S. adults delaying preventive care and 6 in 10 having at least one chronic condition, including heart
disease and diabetes,10 regular health management can be a matter of life and death. Health centers serve a
large population of high-risk patients who are more likely to suffer from a disproportionate array of chronic
conditions.
Additionally, a recent 2025 report showcased the benefits of RPM in helping manage a variety of disease
states. For instance, RPM blood pressure monitoring during periods of active medication management led
to better blood pressure control because the providers could quickly change patients’ hypertension
medications. For diabetes treatment, RPM appeared to be most effective when used by patients with the
highest starting HbA1c levels and those at critical transition points in their care plan. Over 3.2 million health
center patients have diabetes and could benefit from this service.11 Currently, only one percent of Medicare
beneficiaries use RPM today, with the demographic skewing older, nonwhite, urban, more medically
complex, and dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. Among the report’s recommendations for
policymaker consideration is improving access to high-remote monitoring tools.12 NACHC believes this
can happen through multiple avenues: investing in more training for medical staff and patients and making
it more affordable for patients and providers.
NACHC recommends allowing CMS to issue a co-insurance waiver for CHC patients using RPM devices.
While most Medicare patients do not have to pay for RPM devices, they are still responsible for a 20% co-
insurance payment. Patients should not have to choose between crucial RPM services and necessities such
as food, housing, and transportation. Waiving RPM co-insurance costs for CHC patients alleviates potential
financial barriers to care and increases affordability for this vital service.
NACHC advocates that CMS classify Self-Monitoring Blood Pressure (SMBP) devices as Durable Medical
Equipment (DME) to allow any health center patient who needs one to self-manage their blood pressure
information in partnership with their care team via telehealth. From 2022 to 2023, the overall Health Center
patient population grew by 3%, while the number of individuals with hypertension increased by 5%,
afflicting over 5.8 million Health Center patients.13 SMBP devices allow health center care teams to reach
more people more quickly. Furthermore, cost and coverage should not be barriers to accessing a SMBP
device, especially given the unique patient population health centers serve. Hypertension is the most
10 https://www.cdc.gov/chronic-
disease/about/index.html#:~:text=Definition%E2%80%8E,of%20daily%20living%20or%20both.&text=Six%20in%
2010%20Americans%20have,two%20or%20more%20chronic%20diseases
11 2023 UDS HRSA data
12 https://petersonhealthcare.org/news/evolving-remote-monitoring-report/
13 UDS HRSA Data 2023
5

common chronic condition of Medicare beneficiaries and the leading modifiable risk factor for coronary
heart disease, stroke, and congestive heart failure, also contributing to chronic kidney disease and
dementia. Given this reality and the growing shift towards keeping individuals in their homes and
communities as they age and receive care, health centers will need to utilize SMBP devices to better care
for patients. NACHC strongly urges CMS to allow SMBP devices to be covered and billable under
Medicare as a critical patient care tool.
Furthermore, NACHC advocates for more federal support of the Protocol for Responding and Assessing
Patients’ Assets, Risks and Experiences (PRAPARE) tool. NACHC helped create this tool to enable health
centers and other providers to collect the data they need to understand better and address their patients’ non-
clinical social factors. In 2023, over 700 health centers used the PRAPARE tool. There is currently a lack
of federal funding to assist health centers in covering the cost of integrating PRAPARE into their Electronic
Health Records (EHRs), which could cost anywhere from $6,000 to over $49,000. Health centers operate
on thin financial margins, and while many health centers already screen for non-clinical social factors, there
are smaller health centers whose budgets cannot absorb the cost of integrating PRAPARE into EHRs.
NACHC supports additional federal funding to help health centers cover the administrative costs of
integrating PRAPARE into their clinics and the costs to cover the services needed for patients after
PRAPARE identifies them.
3. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their caregivers
or both?
Health centers establish trusted relationships between their providers and patients, as well as caregivers or
personnel on the patient care team. Part of that trust is built on having easily accessible, understandable
health data so all parties can play active roles in their healthcare journey. The following items are some of
the most important data health centers share with their patients and/or caregivers:
• Problem List: Clear summary of formally diagnosed (and billed) conditions, comprehensively
coded in International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-10-
CM) and SNOMED-CT14 as required by USCDIv1 and USCDIv3.
• Lab Results: Easily understandable test results, with historical trends, and represented in platform
databases using Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) codes. This universal
code used by the U.S. Federal Government systems allows the exchange and aggregation of clinical
results for care delivery, outcomes management, and research.15 Using these standardized codes
instead of proprietary codes from diagnostic companies helps improve interoperability, provide
more precise and quality data,16 which will benefit health center patients as it enhances provider
ease with clinical decision-making.
• Medication Lists: Accurate and up-to-date prescriptions, with start/end dates, clear explanations
for how to take each medication, and which condition it is for. Depending on the capabilities of the
health center and its pharmacy, there is also potential integration with medication adherence tools.
• Appointment Schedules: Reminder and scheduling tools accessible in multiple formats, especially
those used by patients with low digital literacy, such as via text message, paper-based, and portals
14 A comprehensive, international, and multilingual clinical terminology system used in EHRs
15 https://mmshub.cms.gov/measure-lifecycle/measure-specification/specify-code/LOINC
16https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5636728/#:~:text=Improved%20interoperability%20of%20laboratory%
20test,borders%20%5B19%2C%2021%5D.
6

that can work on low-bandwidth internet. This option will help bridge gaps in digital health literacy
or limited broadband access and help decrease the instances of no-shows.
• Care Plans: Individualized and accessible documentation for all parties involved in patient care so
that shared goals and action steps are developed collaboratively between patients and providers.
Health centers have advanced care coordination teams to approach a patient’s health condition(s)
from multiple angles, creating a care plan to provide the most comprehensive care possible. Part of
this, too, is inclusion and closing the loop on non-clinical social factors (NCSF); health centers
have been at the forefront of screening NCSF needs and connecting patients to local CBOs such as
food banks, housing departments or others to address the need flagged in their needs assessment.
• Non-Clinical Social Factor Data: Screening results & referrals to community-based organizations
(CBOs). As discussed above, over two-thirds of health centers screen patients for social needs,
gathering this data through screening tools such as PRAPARE.
• Cost Sharing Information: Clear and transparent billing information, including estimated out-of-
pocket costs. Health centers serve some of the most financially and medically underserved
populations. They work with their patients to pay what they can for services; they establish a sliding
fee discount program, which reduces or waives the amount that the patient pays based on their
income relative to the federal poverty level and the patient’s family size.
4. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common AgreementTM (TEFCATM) currently
helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world?
Since 1965, CHCs have utilized strategic partnerships to improve community health and advance patient
access. In recent years, CHCs have continued to be innovators as the environment changes with new health
technology. NACHC acknowledges the utility of the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common
Agreement (TEFCA) and supports CMS in assessing ways to improve CHC adoption to ultimately improve
patient access to health information.
a. Please provide specific examples.
TEFCA holds immense potential, but adoption within the CHC ecosystem is nascent. Current adoption is
limited primarily to larger, better-resourced Health Information Exchanges (HIEs) participating as
Qualified Health Information Networks (QHINs). NACHC sees the potential use cases around referral
management and care coordination, and we encourage CMS to evaluate the complexity of onboarding, cost
of integration, effectiveness, and lack of informatics staffing in organizations that act as barriers to
widespread TEFCA adoption in CHCs. See additional details below.
b. What changes would you suggest?
NACHC recommends that CMS evaluate the following to increase TEFCA adoption in CHCs:
• Onboarding: Reduce the administrative burden for smaller HIEs and CHCs to connect to
QHINs. Health centers use a variety of Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems that don’t
necessarily “talk” to each other. To participate in and integrate with TEFCA’s exchange model,
health centers and smaller HIEs would need to complete substantive technical upgrades or even
complete system replacements.
• Financial Support: Capital is necessary to invest in the future of technology, especially as
health centers provide millions of dollars in uncompensated care, and general care costs are
7

rising. Providing grants or subsidies to assist CHCs and smaller HIEs with TEFCA
implementation costs would help significantly.
• Technical Assistance: Offer dedicated technical support and training tailored to the needs of
CHCs in participating in a QHIN. Becoming part of this advanced network of organizations to
ensure a secure and standardized exchange of electronic health information means bolstering a
health center’s technology systems and training staff to correctly participate. Health centers do
not have the capital to pursue this and ask CMS/ONC to support efforts in this space.
• Data Governance Clarity: Develop clearer guidance on data governance and consent
management within the TEFCA framework. States may have different requirements regarding
consent management, and participants in TEFCA could have different policies and procedures
for data governance. Having a more streamlined approach to both data governance and consent
management will help enhance health centers’ adoption of TEFCA.
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA?
The implementation of TEFCA could significantly impact CHCs and their patients. For example, TEFCA
could facilitate seamless access to patient records across state lines for individuals receiving care at multiple
CHCs. Additionally, the framework could provide CHC clinicians with real-time access to patient
information in emergency situations, regardless of location.
Lastly, the framework could offer a standardized approach for sharing non-clinical social factor data across
organizations to enable more holistic care coordination. This is especially important for CHCs, as over 3
million CHC patients in both rural and urban environments were screened positively for social risk factors
in 2023, including financial strain, food insecurity, housing insecurity, and a lack of transportation.17
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access and
existing exchange purposes?
While Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) are the cornerstone to advancing access to health
information, NACHC encourages CMS to look to ‘adherence to terminology’ standards through the
terminology module as they provide a way to define and use mandatory code systems/terminology (ICD-
10-CM, SNOMED-CT, LOINC, RxNorm, etc.), value sets, and concept maps. We also encourage CMS to
look to HL7 v2 for legacy system compatibility (while transitioning to FHIR), and CDA for document
sharing.
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be consolidated?
NACHC encourages CMS/ASTP to review ongoing duplication of effort around unique patient
identification. CMS/ASTP should consider adopting a national framework managed by a neutral party while
respecting patient privacy concerns. CMS/ASTP should consider adopting Privacy-Preserving Record
Linkage (PPRL) through free open-source options such as Anonlink and PPRL package, combined with a
commercial product (e.g., Colorado University Record Linkage / CURL).
5. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient access to health
information in the real world?
a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?
17 UDS 2023 HRSA Data
8

Data quality and availability vary significantly depending on which states are covered by the HIE and state
laws/regulations. HIE data is often valuable for acute care referrals and hospital transitions, but less
comprehensive regarding primary care, behavioral health, and non-clinical social factor data. Accuracy can
be compromised by data entry errors and inconsistent coding practices, negatively impacting health center
patients and hindering providers' care efforts.
b. What changes would you suggest?
• Incentivize Data Completeness: Reward HIEs for actively soliciting and integrating
comprehensive data from participating providers, particularly primary care practices such as health
centers, adhering to a common data model, USCDIv3, and others. Data is power, and the benefits
will trickle down to health centers and their patients.
• Standardized Data Quality Audits: Implement regular data quality audits to identify and address
inaccuracies and the lack of utilization of required standard terminologies. To reiterate,
standardizing data makes comparing patient data apples to apples easier, helping alleviate provider
burden and ensure accuracy.
• Promote Non-Clinical Social Factors (NCSF) Data Integration: Encourage HIEs to adopt and
implement standardized NCSF data elements through the Gravity Project value sets. The Gravity
Project looks to identify data elements and associated value sets to represent NCSF information
documented in EHRs across four clinical activities: screening, diagnosis, goal setting, and
intervention activities. The Gravity Project will develop a consensus-based set of recommendations
on how best to capture and group these data elements for interoperable electronic exchange and
aggregation and collaborate with coding and terminology organizations to address coding gaps
identified and apply for new codes (e.g., CPT codes for interventions). Collecting non-clinical
social factors through the Gravity Project value sets will help better understand the patient as a
whole, given their strong impact on the patient’s general health, well-being, and quality of life.18
Compared to the national population, more health center patients screened positive for financial
strain, food insecurity, housing insecurity, and lack of transportation,19 making integration of these
NCSF into HIEs crucial.
c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe should be
propagated across markets?
Regional HIEs with strong provider engagement (e.g., those led by State Primary Care Associations) often
demonstrate greater success. Models focused on data normalization through proper use of standard
terminologies and value sets, with strict conformance to USCDI, combined with analytics, are valuable and
should be propagated. Furthermore, while HIEs excel in HL7 ADT exchanges, some HIEs often lack
discrete lab data (non-ELR interfaces).
d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities facilitating data exchange and
broader frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health information networks,
TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)?
HIEs remain vital, even with TEFCA. They offer regional expertise and established provider relationships
and can serve as key connectors between QHINs and providers. However, HIEs need to evolve from simply
being data “pipes” to offering value-added services like analytics and care coordination support.
18 https://odphp.health.gov/healthypeople/priority-areas/social-determinants-health
19 2023 UDS HRSA Data
9

6. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas, to
leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for their patients?
a. What are the current obstacles?
Health centers face many obstacles in utilizing approved digital health products for their patients. A key
challenge is workflow integration; integrating new digital health products into existing EHR workflows is
particularly difficult for CHCs with limited informatics staff. While CHCs maintain a dedicated staff, these
IT teams are small and usually wear multiple hats, meaning health centers rely on third-party vendors and
organizations to assist them with their informatics. For digital health products, the cost related to both
licensing and implementation makes uptake prohibitive. Additionally, there are costs related to training;
providers need adequate training and support to effectively use new technologies. Provider burnout is still
high – 48.2% of physicians reported experiencing at least one symptom of burnout20 – and lack of clear
reimbursement pathways discourages adoption.
NACHC harbors concerns about patient access to technology and digital literacy and a general lack of
broadband access in rural and urban areas. To address both transportation barriers that health center patients
may face and the lack of access to broadband, which could impact telehealth access, many health centers
have implemented mobile units to meet community needs.
NACHC recommends that CMS invest in mobile health care units operated by health centers to reach
medically underserved communities. One health center in Missouri partnered with its county’s mobile
healthcare network to meet patient needs. The program utilizes paramedics and CHWs to conduct house
calls to high-risk and chronically ill patients lacking access to primary care. At the patient’s home, these
providers conduct home assessments, medication reconciliation, physical assessments, capture vital signs,
in-home lab draws, point-of-care lab testing, IVs, perform electrocardiograms, ultrasounds, and other
preventative and post-discharge needs.
Paramedics and CHWs can also support patients with their telehealth visits by liaising with their clinicians
and bringing mobile hotspots to rural areas that lack reliable internet access. This innovative model has also
established strategies to support and strengthen the workforce by working with local colleges to train locally
and has demonstrated significant healthcare savings. In the first year of this program, 21 patients were
served, and there was a 100% decrease in emergency transport to hospitals. Patients served by this program
frequently needed emergency transportation for basic primary care needs. In 2020, before enrolling in the
program, a patient was transported at least 44 times, and their health care totaled more than $118,000. After
enrolling in the program, the year-to-date costs were approximately $5,000. This partnership approach can
be replicated in other rural and underserved communities as it provides the flexibility to include other
services like managing chronic conditions that are prevalent in the community, access to vaccination, and
addressing social drivers of health like access to healthy food and increasing health literacy. NACHC
recommends CMS consider leveraging these lessons learned by supporting health centers to expand these
models to more rural and underserved communities. It is important to note that while mobile health care
can expand access to care, insurance for drivers and the units can become cost-prohibitive, creating another
barrier for safety net providers. Oversight of these insurance costs would help safety net providers to grow
these innovative models.
b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products in the
provision of their care?
20 https://www.ama-assn.org/practice-management/physician-health/measuring-and-addressing-physician-
burnout#:~:text=The%20most%20recent%20study%20in,2014%20and%2045.5%25%20in%202011.
10

All data requested by patients should be provided per ASTP/ONC’s information blocking rule.
• Clinical Evidence: Explain the evidence base and peer-reviewed data supporting the product's
use. This will help increase the health center patients’ trust regarding the product and enhance
the likelihood of usage.
• Workflow Integration Details: Clearly outline how the product will integrate into existing
workflows. Explaining to the health center patient how this digital product will enhance care
coordination and positively impact their health will help them further understand the
device/product.
• Patient Support Resources: Information about available patient training and support
materials. With proper funding, the health center could provide this directly to boost patient
confidence in utilizing this device.
• Privacy & Security Information: Transparency about data security measures. In an age where
data breaches happen weekly, outlining the policies and procedures of how both the health
center and the company manufacturing the device strive to keep the patient’s data safe and
secure will boost trust between the provider and patient.
• Potential Costs and Benefits: Outlining impacts on both patients and practice budgets. Health
center patients are some of the most medically and financially underserved in the country; 56%
of health center patients are at or below 150% FPL. These products need to be made available
at affordable prices to enhance patient access.
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a digital product by a
patient?
• Appropriate Selection: Choosing products based on clinical evidence and patient needs.
Health center providers use the best information possible, coupled with their deep knowledge
of their patients’ medical needs, to recommend the right product to help address their patients’
health concerns.
• Proper Training: Ensuring adequate training for staff. As previously mentioned, staff need to
comprehensively understand the uses of digital products whenever they use them.
• Patient Education: Clearly explaining the product's purpose and benefits to patients.
• Monitoring & Evaluation: Monitor patient outcomes and adjust the use of the product as
needed. Health center providers currently do this when reading Self-Monitoring Blood Pressure
devices (SMBP) or remote blood glucose monitors when they transmit results straight back to
the provider via Bluetooth. The provider can use those results to make the right care decision
for their patient.
7. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you already support or utilize in your
provider organization's systems, directly or through an intermediary? For each, describe the
transaction model, use case, whether you use individual queries or bulk transactions, and any
constraints:
11

As we previously commented on in the 2024 Interoperability and Prior Authorization Rule,21 NACHC
supports ways to improve the efficiency of the prior authorization process through a patient access
application program interface (API). See below for descriptions of how each API is used and beneficial to
CHCs and their patients:
a. Patient Access API: For patient access to health information through third-party apps that
address their clinical and patient use cases. A constraint for the Patient Access API is a lack of
access for out-of-network providers. Given varying network adequacy standards, a patient may
need to seek care from an out-of-network provider. For instance, Medicaid managed care plans
have wide discretion when measuring provider network adequacy. States currently calculate these
standards quantitatively, given that the 2020 CMS Medicaid managed care final rule removed the
state requirement of using time and distance standards.22 These changes do not consider geographic
and distance barriers that health center patients may face in getting access to timely care. The
nearest provider who accepts Medicaid may not be in the patient’s insurance network. Health center
patients should be able to access prior authorization information via the Patient Access API,
regardless of their provider, and their provider should be able to offer the same services for prior
authorization, regardless of their network status with the patient.
b. Standardized API for Patient and Population Services: For querying health information for
individuals or populations (bulk data transactions for public health reporting), which is critical for
policy advocacy backed by real-world evidence.
c. Provider Directory API: For discovery of healthcare providers' details for care coordination,
which is critical for closing care gaps in patients with non-clinical social risk factors of health, and
linkages to CBOs.
d. Provider Access API: For providers to query patient health information from others involved in
a patient’s care, which is critical for care coordination across the biopsychosocial issues of patients
in CHCs.
e. Payer-to-Payer API: For exchange of beneficiaries’ data when a beneficiary changes payers,
which is critical for correct and timely community health center reimbursement.
f. Prior Authorization API: For streamlining the prior authorization process, which is critical for
both patients and providers, who can strengthen initial prior authorization requests and ease re-
submissions or address denials.
NACHC supports requiring healthcare items and services to be subject to the electronic prior
authorization process for both the Patient Access API and the Provider Access API. NACHC
recommends CMS work with different agencies, such as ONC and SAMHSA, along with states, to
make prescription drugs subject to these prior authorization requirements and include them in these
APIs. In the final 2024 Interoperability and Prior Authorization final rule, CMS stated it would “consider
options in future rulemaking to address improvements to the prior authorization processes for drugs.”23
While we understand that the processes and standards for prior authorization differ for prescription drugs,
patients deserve the same transparency in the process regarding their prescriptions.
21 https://www.regulations.gov/comment/CMS-2022-0190-0222
22 https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2020/11/13/2020-24758/medicaid-program-medicaid-and-childrens-
health-insurance-program-chip-managed-care
23 https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/02/08/2024-00895/medicare-and-medicaid-programs-patient-
protection-and-affordable-care-act-advancing-interoperability
12

According to 84% of physicians in a 2021 survey, the number of required prior authorizations for
prescription drugs has increased over the years.24 This trend has been consistent at health centers, which
have seen an increase in prior authorization for higher-cost brand drugs versus generic drugs. This becomes
an issue for patients who cannot take the generic alternative or if the generic is unavailable due to
pharmaceutical storage. Furthermore, chronic medications constantly trigger prior authorization when a
patient requires a refill. Instances like these showcase the need for prescription drugs to be subject to these
same provisions to enhance and improve the prior authorization process.
Health centers take pride in offering pharmacy services and contract with community pharmacies to expand
patient access to affordable prescription drugs. Many health center pharmacies employ clinical pharmacists
who ensure that providers are kept up to date with the latest prescriptions on the formulary so providers can
make an informed choice on what is best for the patient’s condition. Clinical pharmacists also ensure
patients understand their medication and lend themselves as a resource for any patient follow-up questions.
NACHC encourages CMS to include prior authorizations for prescription drugs within the scope of this
proposed rule to improve care coordination for patients by improving interoperability between providers
and pharmacists. It is crucial to include prescription drug prior authorization in the Patient Access API.
8. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) or
participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital health management
and care navigation products more often and more effectively with their patients? What are the
current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption for patients in ACOs?
Health centers are well-positioned to be leaders in the value-based care space and help CMS reach its goal
of having all traditional Medicare beneficiaries participating in value-based care models by 2030. In
partnership with their state Primary Care Associations (PCAs) and Health Center Controlled Networks
(HCCNs), health centers across the country have already been actively engaged in ACOs and the Medicare
Shared Savings Program (MSSP). For decades, health centers have provided comprehensive primary care
by screening for non-clinical social risk factors and used this information to build patient-centric models of
care. However, challenges related to restrictive reimbursement models have stifled health centers’ ability to
employ the right workforce and provide the unique services their patient populations need. The transition
to alternative payment models (APMs) must work for all providers, improve health access, and be
sustainable for participating providers. Safety-net and small community providers face unique barriers to
implementing new value-based payment models. Many of these models require significant upfront
investments that safety net providers may be unable to make. NACHC urges CMS to consider the
complexities related to health center patients, providing care in rural and medically underserved areas, and
common barriers for safety-net providers. Below are key considerations to support health centers growing
into the MSSP and strengthening their ability to take on risk.
APMs should also account for the higher costs associated with caring for underserved populations and must
not penalize ACOs that spend more to invest in primary care, target historical and ongoing health outcomes,
and address non-clinical social risk factors. The current glide path presents a challenge and is a deterrent
for new ACOs to join the program, particularly for CHC ACOs and those serving medically underserved
populations. Data consistently show that physician-led ACOs earn a bonus and generate higher savings than
hospital and integrated ACOs.25 It’s also been demonstrated that ACOs generate more savings over time –
24 https://www.ama-assn.org/system/files/prior-authorization-reform-progress-update.pdf
25 https://www.healthaffairs.org/content/forefront/medicare-shared-savings-program-2020-positive-movement-and-
uncertainty-during-
pandemic#:~:text=Trends%20In%20Shared%20Savings%20For,percent%20and%2085%20percent%2C%20respect
ively.
13

with savings increasing by the third year of participation.26 The rapid transition to downside risk accelerates
the speed with which ACOs must develop and hone the skills and capabilities required to succeed in value-
based payment arrangements, leading to ACOs dropping out of the program after the first three years. This
is even more prominent in the CHC space, as health centers incur unique risks by providing care to all
patients regardless of their ability to pay and being strategically placed in medically underserved areas.
CMS should consider health centers’ “risks” when evaluating how and when they transition into models
that assume more downside risk. NACHC appreciates that CMS recognizes that low-revenue ACOs may
need additional time to participate in upside-only and provides ACOs the opportunity to remain in Level A
for the full agreement period. NACHC supports policies acknowledging that the rapid assumption of
downside financial risk has prevented many practices and ACOs serving medically underserved populations
from transitioning to value-based payment. Providing practices with additional opportunities to participate
in value-based payment arrangements, including non-ACO models, is an important step in advancing health
access. Additionally, CMS must consider health center-specific challenges with maintaining required
attribution rates for safety-net providers. If an ACO is not ready to transition to the next level, CMS should
provide technical assistance to help ACOs evaluate their programs to understand barriers to transition and
provide resources to support a successful transition.
Furthermore, timely claims data ensures health centers can better assess patient needs and care metrics
requiring more attention. Health centers can then engage with community partners who can assist with the
care gaps, implement technology/services to close care gaps, and provide the necessary training to support
patient utilization of digital products. Delays in this information pose a risk to health centers’ ability to meet
performance metrics within downside risk contracts, a financial risk many cannot afford to take. When
payers and other partners are timely with their data transfer, it ensures success for all health centers to
provide timely, relevant, and adequate care to prevent unnecessary illness. This enables payers to ultimately
save money and reduce costs by having healthier patients.
NACHC supports CMS revising the regulatory requirement that an RHC or CHC medical visit must be a
face-to-face encounter between a beneficiary and an RHC or CHC practitioner, including encounters
furnished through interactive, real-time, audio, and video telecommunications technology. CMS should
amend the definition of a CHC medical visit to ensure health centers receive their full PPS rate. Currently,
health centers are receiving around $96 for services that generate the same costs related to workforce and
technology. Being able to bill PPS for medical visits will bolster financial stability, improve cash flow, and
ensure fairer compensation for telehealth services. By simplifying the billing process and increasing
revenue, health centers can expand telehealth access to underserved populations. NACHC strongly supports
amending the definition of a medical visit, which would help provide more congruent payment for
telehealth visits, no matter if they are medical or behavioral health visits.
As mentioned previously, the cost is a large barrier to new endeavors; this is no different for digital health
adoption in MSSP and ACO environments. The cost of many digital products (such as Self-Measured Blood
Pressure (SMBP) home devices and technology to sync SMBP data via Bluetooth) requires upfront cost
and maintenance. CMS should consider upfront incentives to provide health centers with the financial
capability to implement technologies that benefit patients and fund the staff time to provide the necessary
training to patients and the care team to make it successful.
Telehealth has been crucial in bridging gaps in the care of health center patients. In 2023, 99% of health
centers nationwide offered telehealth services compared to just 43% in 2019.27 Fifty-four percent of
telehealth visits were for medical services, 34% for behavioral health services, 9% for enabling services,
26 https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/participation-continues-grow-cms-accountable-care-organization-
initiatives-2024
27 2023 UDS HRSA Data
14

and 3% for other services. By offering telehealth services for medical and behavioral health care, health
centers can expand access to comprehensive care and better serve Medicare beneficiaries facing
socioeconomic, mobility, or transportation challenges. Telehealth is also popular among health center
patients. Results from a NACHC survey show that almost 90% of patients surveyed agreed that telehealth
addressed their needs, was suitable for interaction with their clinician, and they were generally comfortable
and satisfied with care via telehealth. A quarter of the patients surveyed had a visit for behavioral health –
52.55% via audio-only and 65.7% via video (and some were both).28 This adds to the growing body of
research about the strength of telehealth in providing clinically equivalent care, besides eliciting strong
satisfaction from patients. Further expansion of telehealth continues to connect more providers to patients
and break down barriers to care for patients.
Changing the definition of a medical visit to include virtual encounters allows health centers to provide
patients with services through the modality of their choice and to best address their medical needs. Health
centers strive to meet patients where they are and to enhance access to care; telehealth helps health centers
fulfill their purpose of providing high-quality, affordable, and accessible care to all their patients.
9. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
Value-based care arrangements require a diverse and robust set of health IT capabilities, including care
planning tools, patient event notifications, data extraction and normalization, quality performance
measurements, access to claims data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device interoperability,
patient portals, and applications for patient self-monitoring and reporting.
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include:
In addition to the IT capabilities listed above, there are other IT-related barriers to the adoption of value-
based care arrangements. For example, CHCs struggle to successfully target patients to schedule their
Annual Wellness Visits (AWVs) if there is incorrect patient attribution. AWVs are a vital opportunity for
patients and their providers to discuss preventive strategies collaboratively and for the provider to
recommend clinical preventive services, leading to a diagnosis.29 These can help improve patient health as
well as establish and develop a deeper, trusted relationship with their provider. Health centers have stressed
the need for a timelier way to accurately identify eligible patients on their rosters for AWVs. While they are
switching to newer technologies in many elements of their practices, health centers currently rely on
outdated payor reporting. NACHC requests that CMS require Medicare plans to allow providers, like health
centers, access to updated patient attribution lists via the plan’s portal. Access to a Medicare portal would
allow health centers to verify the eligibility of the entire attribution list, improving efforts in identifying and
reaching out to patients to schedule their AWV. The linkage between patient attribution and provider care
creates better alignment between providers and plans, reduces the administrative burden on both entities,
streamlines payer-provider coordination, and improves patient outcomes.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based care
arrangements?
CHCs could benefit from expanded health IT capabilities to succeed in value-based care arrangements. For
example, the ability to extract positive non-clinical social factors concepts in free-text or unstructured
provider notes would improve CHCs’ ability to participate, as they can offer more detailed and nuanced
28 https://www.nachc.org/resource/assessing-patient-satisfaction-with-telehealth-at-community-health-centers-a-
policy-brief/
29 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8455445/.
15

outlooks of the patient visit that more structured data, such as limited diagnosis codes, could miss.30
NACHC recommends CMS/ASTP consider the appropriate ICD-10-CM Z-code or SNOMED-CT code and
evaluate the work on this topic by the Gravity Project. As previously mentioned, the Gravity Project looks
to identify data elements and associated value sets to represent NCSF information documented in EHRs
across four clinical activities: screening, diagnosis, goal setting, and intervention activities. The Gravity
Project will develop a consensus-based set of recommendations on how best to capture and group these
data elements for interoperable electronic exchange and aggregation and collaborate with coding and
terminology organizations to address coding gaps identified and apply for new codes (e.g., CPT codes for
interventions). Collecting non-clinical social risk factors through the Gravity Project value sets will help
better understand the patient, given their strong impact on patients’ general health, well-being, and quality
of life.31
10. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value-based care
arrangements?
NACHC recommends that CMS promote interoperability with the Health Resources and Services
Administration (HRSA) to streamline reporting requirements. Health centers use a standardized reporting
system known as the HRSA Uniform Data System (UDS) that captures a core set of data that includes
patient characteristics, services provided, clinical processes and health outcomes, patients’ use of services,
staffing, costs, and revenues. This data set does not always align with quality metrics often used by CMS’s
value-based payment models, or there is duplication. For instance, many CHCs must report nearly identical
quality measures, such as blood pressure control or depression screening, multiple times to multiple entities,
with only minor variations in specifications. The promotion of interoperability between HRSA and CMS
reporting processes would greatly improve health center participation by decreasing the data reporting
burden and ensuring that patient outcomes are correctly attributed to the health center where these patients
get their primary care services.
While the number of Medicare patients in health centers is rapidly growing, they currently represent a
smaller portion of the overall Medicare population. This ultimately creates a barrier to meeting the
minimum Medicare participation requirements in many value-based models, resulting in health centers
often being unable to participate in CMS’s alternative payment models.32 Health centers need transparent,
continuous, and accurate attribution numbers and a simple methodology to enter value-based care
arrangements. CMS and payers need to share this information, which should include how patients are
transferred into and out of a provider’s attributed population.
NACHC urges CMS to align patient attribution requirements and processes among the same payer and
work with other agencies, such as the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI), to evaluate
how patient attribution strategies can be better streamlined across payers. Successful patient attribution is
a key component to achieving success in value-based care (VBC) arrangements.33 CMS has strongly
encouraged healthcare providers, including CHCs, to increase their participation in these arrangements. In
partnership with their state PCAs and Health Center Controlled Networks (HCCNs), health centers across
the country have already been actively engaged in Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) and the
Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP). In 2021, 15 states had CHCs that led ACOs.34 Some health
centers participating in these VBC arrangements have reported issues with the patient attribution system. If
30 https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10938158/
31 https://odphp.health.gov/healthypeople/priority-areas/social-determinants-health
32 e F et al. If Medicare builds it, can CHCs come? Medical Care. American Public Health Association. 2023.
https://www.themedicalcareblog.com/CHCs-medicare-primary-care-model/.
33 https://www.soa.org/493462/globalassets/assets/files/resources/research-report/2018/patient-attribution.pdf
34 NACHC 2021 PCA Policy Survey Assessment
16

not correctly attributed, CHCs face an undue administrative burden on providers who cannot access crucial
data for their patients, such as prior authorization data, ultimately hurting the patient’s access to care.
Furthermore, incorrect attribution can hurt overall care coordination efforts and the health center’s ability
to maintain VBC arrangements.
NACHC has heard from health centers that it is challenging to track patients, given the existing limitations
of accessing updated Medicare Advantage (MA) patient attribution panels. Furthermore, many patients are
automatically attributed to a specific CHC when their primary care provider is at another facility. This auto
attribution has a negative impact because the CHC is responsible for a patient they are not providing care
to, and the system provides the CHC with limited options to remove that patient from their panel. Incorrect
attribution does not accurately reflect the patient’s care, which impacts the CHC’s financial success when
participating in VBC arrangements. NACHC continues to urge CMS to recognize the importance of correct
patient-provider attribution.
Currently, CHCs are responsible for submitting overlapping quality data to multiple payers often reporting
the same data in different formats, through different portals, and on different timelines. CMS should conduct
a comprehensive review of its current portfolio of value-based care (VBC) initiatives—including ACOs,
Patient-Centered Medical Homes (PCMHs), MIPS Value Pathways, Innovation Center models, bundled
payment programs, and advanced primary care models. Many of these models pursue similar goals (cost
control and improved quality) and focus on the same beneficiaries and conditions, yet they differ in design,
reporting, and payment mechanics. This proliferation creates unnecessary complexity, particularly for
safety-net providers like CHCs, who must assess eligibility, track participation, and report performance
across multiple, partially redundant initiatives. These parallel reporting obligations require additional
staffing, IT system adaptations, and manual reconciliation efforts that do not improve care quality. CMS
should explore opportunities to consolidate, align, or sunset overlapping programs and standardize core
value-based care components (e.g., risk adjustment, attribution, and quality measures) to create a unified
national framework. By streamlining the value-based care landscape, CMS can improve program
transparency and ensure that fraud prevention and oversight resources are concentrated on meaningful
system reform.
NACHC also recommends that CMS encourage payers to provide participants in VBC arrangements,
including CHCs, timely access to claims data. Access to timely, relevant claims data sets up health centers
and their patients for success in providing high-quality care. One of the biggest benefits is a heightened
ability to engage in population health management. By seeing a comprehensive view of patient care across
the health care system, whether through office visits, prescriptions ordered, or procedures completed,
having access to this data allows health centers to better understand health trends and tailor their
interventions, medical or otherwise, to the needs of their patients. Additionally, timely claims data helps
health centers review patient risk and elevate opportunities to bridge gaps in care. Access to timely data can
also help identify underlying chronic conditions, allowing the health center to identify and diagnose
conditions earlier to prevent costlier interventions in the future.
11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing value-based care
programs?
To reiterate previous answers, health centers face challenges related to data fragmentation across providers
and payers, a general lack of data standardization, varying health IT infrastructure capabilities, patient
matching and attribution issues, and security and privacy concerns. We reiterate the importance of CMS
aligning patient attribution requirements and processes among the same payer and working with other
agencies, such as the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI), to evaluate how patient
attribution strategies can be better streamlined across payers. Successful patient attribution is a key
17

component to helping achieve success in value-based care (VBC) arrangements.35 CMS has strongly
encouraged healthcare providers, including CHCs, to increase their participation in these arrangements. In
partnership with their state PCAs and Health Center Controlled Networks (HCCNs), health centers across
the country have already been actively engaged in Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) and the
Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP). In 2021, 15 states had CHCs that led ACOs.36 Some health
centers participating in these VBC arrangements have reported issues with the patient attribution system. If
not correctly attributed, CHCs face an undue administrative burden on providers who cannot access crucial
data for their patients, such as prior authorization data, ultimately hurting the patient’s access to care.
Furthermore, incorrect attribution can hurt overall care coordination efforts and the health center’s ability
to maintain VBC arrangements.
We greatly appreciate the opportunity to respond to this request for information and share how technology
can greatly benefit health center Medicare patients. NACHC looks forward to continuing to collaborate
with this Administration on leveraging technology to help advance the Make America Healthy Again
agenda, in which health centers play a vital role. We appreciate your consideration of our feedback. Please
feel free to contact Elizabeth Linderbaum, Deputy Director of Regulatory Affairs, at
elinderbaum@nachc.org if you have any questions about our comments.
Sincerely,
Joe Dunn
Chief Policy Officer
35 https://www.soa.org/493462/globalassets/assets/files/resources/research-report/2018/patient-attribution.pdf
36 NACHC 2021 PCA Policy Survey Assessment
18