 June 16, 2025 Dear Stephanie Carlton, Deputy Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and Dr. Thomas Keane, M.D., Assistant Secretar y for Technolog y Policy, National Coordinator for Health Infor mation Technolog y: I write on behalf of Clover Health Investments , Corp. (“ Clo ver ”). We are a physician-enablement technolog y company committed to bringing access to great healthcare to everyone on Medicare . Clover has long advocated for more choice and competition in healthcare , as well as effor ts to reduce costs for seniors , impro ve care quality , and to efficiently use taxpa yer dollars . Our company offers Medicare Advantag e (“ MA ”) plans , with the majority of our members being enrolled in our wide network PPO plans . The following are the foundational principles of our plans: ● Patient Choice and Af fordability : Our members choose their own providers through broad networks, and minimal in- v. out-of-netw ork cost-sharing differences . We offer $0 to low monthly plan premiums and copays with a maxim um out-of-poc ket limit. ● Health Technolo gy for All : We empo wer clinicians to detect and manag e chronic conditions earlier by equipping them with longitudinal patient data and AI-generated insights at the point of care and in their work flows. We do so through our technolog y platfor m, Clover Assistant, for in-netw ork, primar y-care physicians in our company’ s MA plans , and through Counter part Assistant for primar y-care physicians in other plans . Clover Assistant and Counter part Assistant provide the same platfor m (collecti vely here, “ Counter par t Assistant” ). Through Counter part Assistant, we proudly provide the most sophisticated care-coordination tools (often available only to integ rated, large health systems), to independent physicians groups in rural and underser ved comm unities . ● The Right Car e, at the Right Time , for Our Most Vulnerab le Members : Through our team of nurses , doctors , and other healthcare professionals , we identify high-risk members , and give them preventati ve care directly in their homes . And our teams use our cutting-edg e AI platfor m, Counter part Assistant, to provide superior care. We respond to CMS , ASTP , and ONC’ s request for infor mation on the state of data interoperability and broader health technolog y infrastr ucture (“ RFI ”) on behalf of both our 1 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 Medicare Advantag e plans , and our healthcare technolog y business , Counter part Health, Inc. (“ Counter par t ”), which brings access to Counter part Assistant to clinicians across the MA landscape , through relationships with health systems participating in value-based care programs, value-based care enablers , and other MA payors. Clover provides proposals in the five following areas: ● impro ving access to valuable data across the healthcare ecosystem; ● reducing data duplication and strengthening data provenance; ● strengthening interoperability through TEFCA and policy alignment; ● empo wering patients through impro ved access; and ● clarifying the role of authorized vendors under the Infor mation Blocking Rule. Below please find a brief overview of Clover’s business and model of care, followed by our proposals in each area. We thank you in advance for your consideration of our proposals , and would be grateful for the oppor tunity to discuss data interoperability and health technolog y infrastr ucture issues with you further. I. Clo ver’ s Model of Car e & Technolo gy Platf orm Clover was founded in 2014 with the mission of impro ving every life. Today, we offer MA plans in New Jersey, Georgia, Pennsylv ania, South Carolina, and Texas. As of 2025, our plans have over 100,000 members . What distinguishes Clover’s MA plans from others is our care delivery model, described below: A. Br oad Netw orks and Af forda bility We believ e that patients are best off when they see a doctor of their own choosing—someone the patient trusts in good times and in bad to have their best interests in mind. So unlik e many other payors that funnel members through their narrow provider networks (often filled with provider groups they have purchased over the years), we give our members broad networks and honor their choices . In most of our plans , we double down on that commitment to patient choice by minimizing any cost-sharing differential between in- and out-of-netw ork providers . Nearly all of our members are in PPO plans with large provider networks and no referral needed. And we offer $0 to low monthly plan premiums and copays with a maxim um out-of-poc ket limit. 2 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 B. Cutting-Edge Technolo gy Clover empo wers clinicians to detect and manag e chronic conditions earlier through its proprietar y healthcare technolog y platfor m, Counter part Assistant. Unlik e many payors, whose technolog y focus is often on the “insurance” aspect of manag ed care— e.g. , using AI to more tightly manag e claims processing and prior authorizations—our focus is on helping clinicians impro ve care quality . 1 Counter part Assistant does this by aggregating data from over 100 sources across the healthcare system. We use AI and our machine-lear ning models to curate patient-specific insights from the data based on clinical standards of care. And we deliver those insights to clinicians at the point of care. For example: ● If pharmacy records ingested by Clover reflect that a member has a prescription that is overdue for pickup, Counter part Assistant can let the doctor know, so she can nudge the patient or find out if there is some socioeconomic or other deter rent she or Clover can help with. ● If Clover has no record of a member receiving a colorectal cancer screening in the timeline reflected in clinical guidelines , Counter part Assistant can let the doctor know about the potential need and the pertinent guidelines . Within the tool, the doctor can prompt Clover to send a screening test directly to the patient’ s home . ● If lab records ingested by Clover reflect that a member has a GFR (a measure of kidney function) suggesting possible chronic kidney disease , Counter part Assistant can let the doctor know so she can evaluate the patient for the condition. And if the doctor deter mines the patient has chronic kidney disease , Counter part Assistant will surface potential treatment options for the doctor to consider , and the clinical guidelines suppor ting those options ( e.g. , prescribing the patient a medication known as an ACE inhibitor). The results speak for themselv es: using Clover Assistant is correlated with better results , including the following: ● Congesti ve Hear t Failur e (CHF) : CHF patients who had relationships with primar y-care providers using the Clover Assistant had a lower average number of all-cause hospitalizations (18% lower) and 30-da y readmissions (25% lower) compared to patients whose provider did not have access to Clover Assistant. Clover Assistant helped physicians facilitate more 1 And to be clear, we do not use AI for prior authorization. At Clover, any exploration of AI use in utilization manag ement would be focused on providing faster “yeses .” And any denial would be made by a qualified human decision maker after appropriate review . 3 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 proacti ve and frequent longitudinal specialty care manag ement for medically complex CHF patients who often face mobility challeng es and reduced access to traditional office-based sites, including: (1) higher utilization of in-home care (22.8% versus 12.33% receiving at least 1 in-home visit); and (2) more outpatient cardiologist visits (1.1 visits for CA patients versus 0.8 visits for non-Clo ver Assistant patients). 2 ● Diabetes : Compared to those who did not have Clover Assistant visits with their primar y-care providers , enrollees who had Clover Assistant-assisted provider visits: (1) primar y-care practitioner use of Clover Assistant is correlated with earlier diagnosis (average HbA1c 6.65% for members having a Clover Assistant visit with a PCP and 6.91% for members not having such a visit); (2) were treated for diabetes an average of 36 months earlier; (3) were much more likely to obtain earlier treatment with oral diabetes medications and delay use of insulin at later stages of type 2 diabetes; and (4) had lower documented rates of hypoglycemia, a severe complication of diabetes , at 1,000 days (1.5% versus 2.4%). 3 ● Chr onic Kidney Disease (CKD) : Primar y-care physicians who used Clover Assistant were able to diagnose–earlier–CKD stage 3 and higher . Earlier diagnosis of CKD resulting from CA-assisted visits slowed the decline of kidney function significantly (GFR, or glomer ular filtration rate, of about 4.6 mL/min per year versus 1.3 mL/min per year), helping to delay and prevent adverse and costly health outcomes from reduced kidney function, including high blood pressure , heart disease , strok e, dialysis dependence , and death. 4 ● Medication Adher ence : Non-adherence to medications for diabetes , high blood pressure , and high cholesterol is common and associated with worse chronic disease control, increased disease-related complications , and higher healthcare costs . Clover Assistant visits alerted primar y-care physicians to patients’ medication non-adherence . Medication fills increased by 4.8% on the day enrollees had a CA-assisted visit with a primar y-care provider and remained 2.6% higher 90 days after the visit. 5 Outcomes like these–from earlier diagnosis and manag ement of chronic conditions to better medication adherence–are what led Clover’s PPO plans to a 4 Star overall rating for Star Ratings year 5 See here for more details . 4 See here for more details . 3 See here for more details . 2 See here for more details . 4 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 2025, and to achieve 4.94 out of 5 Stars on HEDIS measures , the top-perfor ming score on core HEDIS measures for Medicare Advantag e plans nationwide . 6 C. In-Home Car e Clover understands that for some members , getting to the doctor is a challeng e, whether because of mobility problems , social reasons , or other constraints . Thus, for high-risk members , Clover offers to bring care directly to the home through both in-person and telehealth visits . Our in-home care teams , which include physicians and nurses emplo yed by Clover, use Counter part Assistant to bring AI-po wered care-coordination to our most vulnerable members . And unlik e some other programs, the purpose of these visits is not just to document conditions , but to provide impactful longitudinal care. Again, the results speak for themselv es: members enrolled in Clover’s in-home care program in 2023 saw a ~26% reduction in inpatient stays, compared to just a 2.7% reduction of eligible members who were not enrolled in the program. II. Impr oving Access to Valua ble Data Acr oss the Healthcar e Ecosystem As highlighted in Questions PC-8 and PC-9 of this RFI, access to complete , high-quality health data is essential for effecti ve care coordination, population health, and digital innovation. But some of the most valuable datasets remain difficult to access , standardize , or exchang e across health systems . 7 We provide the following recommendations to impro ve access . ● Appointment Scheduling : Regarding RFI Questions PC-8, PC-12, and PR-4, appointment scheduling data plays a critical role in coordinating timely care and patient engagement. But without a national standard, scheduling data remains inconsistently structured across systems . We encourag e development of a FHIR-based national standard for appointment scheduling to promote greater interoperability and alignment across platfor ms. ● Expanding Access Bey ond Blue Button : In response to RFI Questions PC-9 and TD-2.a., we strongly urge expanding the data available through its APIs , such as the Blue Button 2.0 API, 7 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Request for Infor mation; Health Technolo gy Ecosystem . Question PC-8. May 2024. Available at: https://www .federalregister .gov/documents/2025/05/16/2025-08701/request-for -infor mation-hea lth-tec hnolog y-ecosystem 6 4.94 is the weighted average of the measure scores in the CMS Star Ratings for which the primar y data source was HEDIS and for which Clover was eligible to be rated. The calculation uses the same weighting used by CMS for the measures in calculating the overall Star score . The analysis targets non-SNP (Special Needs Plan) HEDIS measures for plans with more than 2,000 contracted lives. Exclusions include measures like C06 (Medication Review) and C07 (Pain Assessment), which are only relevant to SNP plans . Not all contracts offer SNPs , therefore those measures were excluded to enhance the accuracy of comparison across contracts . For detailed methodolog y and the HEDIS perfor mance of the broader industr y visit, please see here . 5 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 to fully align with the comprehensi ve data requirements mandated for other payers under the Patient Access and Payer-to-P ayer API rules. While Blue Button 2.0 has laid a strong foundation for patient-directed access to Medicare Fee-for -Service data, currently only claims data (for the most part) is available from CMS . That limitation significantly constrains robust, interoperable solutions essential for effecti ve care manag ement. CMS also holds a broader set of patient-related data, including social deter minants of health, care gap status , and quality perfor mance metrics , that is not currently accessible through authorized tools. Access to this clinical data would empo wer beneficiaries and their caregi vers to meaningfully engage in their care and enhance providers’ ability to identify care gaps and impro ve care coordination. ● Imaging and Diagnostics : In response to RFI Questions PC-8, PC-9 and TD-13, we highlight that imaging and diagnostic data are largely siloed across disperate imaging systems and often unavailable across care settings in real time. These gaps delay clinical decision-making and limit the ability of health-tec hnolog y platfor ms to suppor t infor med care delivery. To address these challeng es and unloc k the full potential of electronic health infor mation, we encourag e considering policies that promote structured exchang e of imaging data through national framew orks, including via TEFCA and FHIR-based APIs , to ensure this valuable data is accessible when it is needed. A. Reducing Data Duplication and Str engthening Pr ovenance Addressing core themes raised in RFI Questions PC-11 (data accuracy), PR-7 (high quality and comprehensi ve data), TD-10 (effor tless EHI access), and TD-13 (obstacles to full EHI), we note that data duplication has long been a challeng e in healthcare , leading to bloated patient records and uncer tainty about which version of a record is most reliable . Most recently , new duplication patter ns have emerg ed as more organizations participate in national exchang e framew orks. For example , after retrieving data via a network query, some organizations may include those previously obtained records in their own outbound responses , circulating the same infor mation multiple times and compounding existing duplication risks. While standards for data provenance exist, adoption and consistency remain limited. We encourag e CMS to work with ONC to incor porate detailed requirements for provenance tagging and data reuse directly into the ONC Health IT Certification Prog ram to ensure that exchang ed infor mation remains accurate , deduplicated, and clinically meaningful. For example , CMS and ONC could develop standards under which repeated patter ns of data duplication would be considered a form of infor mation blocking. 6 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 B. Str engthening Inter opera bility thr ough TEFCA and Policy Alignment We strongly suppor t effor ts to advance TEFCA and believ e additional steps could help ensure it fulfills its role as an equitable framew ork for health infor mation exchang e. Our recommendations for maximizing TEFCA ’s impact directly address inquiries raised in RFI Questions PC-10 (TEFCA ’s impact on patient access), PR-6 (TEFCA ’s role in provider access), and TD-6 (interoperability functions). To maximize TEFCA ’s impact, we recommend: ● Broader Participation : While TEFCA remains voluntar y, please explore future pathw ays such as certification requirements or participation incenti ves that encourag e adoption among certified EHR vendors , laboratories , and other critical data holders . For example , ambient-scribing vendors could contribute raw transcription–with the appropriate patient consent and other guardrails–to ensure accuracy of ambient-scribing and related AI products . One way to encourag e such participation is to reduce or eliminate various regulator y or programmatic burdens for those who use TEFCA. We are happy to discuss various de-regulator y avenues in this regard. ● Expanding Requir ed Ex change Pur poses : We encourag e expanding TEFCA-required use cases to more accurately reflect the full scope of permissible data exchang e under HIPAA, particularly with respect to treatment and healthcare operations . 8 Under the current framew ork, QHINs and their participants are only required to respond to requests for “Treatment” and “Indi vidual Access Services.” 9 This limitation impedes the flow of health infor mation crucial for moder n healthcare delivery and forces reliance on less efficient non-standardized methods for data exchang e. Accordingly , we propose expanding the mandated scope of “Treatment” to include critical care coordination and pre-encounter planning activities (e.g., pre-admission planning, proacti ve care manag ement, medication adherence , care gap evaluation). Concur rently , we urge making “Healthcare Operations” a mandated use case to directly enable the robust data flow essential for value-based care, comprehensi ve population health, and quality impro vement initiati ves. Mandating this exchang e is essential to achieve true nationwide interoperability , fostering an effecti ve, patient-centered healthcare system. 9 The Sequoia Project, Standard Operating Procedur es (SOP): Ex change Pur poses (XPs) , Version 3.0 (Aug. 6, 2024), available at https://rce .sequoiaproject.org/w p-content/uploads/2024/08/SOP-Ex chang e-Pur poses_CA-v3_50 8.pdf 8 45 C.F.R. § 164.501 (defining “treatment” to include the provision, coordination, or manag ement of healthcare and related services by one or more providers , including with third parties; defining “healthcare operations” to include quality assessment and impro vement activities , case manag ement, and care coordination). 7 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 ● Recipr ocal Data Ex change Ob ligations : Pertaining to RFI Questions PR-6, TD-6, TD-16, and VB-11, we propose that to maintain trust, ensure balanced participation, and realize nationwide interoperability , entities participating in TEFCA must be unequi vocally required to timely respond to inbound data queries . Without clear and enforceable reciprocal oblig ations , the framew ork risks becoming a unilateral data flow, under mining care coordination and ultimately impeding patient outcomes . Timely data response , subject to robust privacy, security , and technical feasibility safeguards , is foundational for enabling critical workflows like clinical decision-making, care transitions , and population health manag ement. ● Historical Data Access : Please enhance the Payer-to-P ayer API (and Provider Access API) rules to mandate or incenti vize impacted payers to proacti vely transfer a beneficiar y’s historical data (up to the five-year look-bac k) to their subsequent plan(s) upon disenrollment. The Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule (CMS-0057-F) currently requires that “impacted payers” (including MA plans) make five (5) years of a member’ s historical data (e.g., claims , encounters , clinical data, etc.) available to their new plan, upon member consent, through a Payer-to-P ayer API. But this requirement does not cover any plan(s) other than the one that the patient has just left for the new plan. Given that many patients switc h plans several times within a five-year period, the existing requirement provides significantly less than five years of patient data to the new plan. We recommend closing this loophole and making clear that the five-year period extends to all plans that the beneficiar y was a member of within the five years , and that all such plans must automatically transfer data to the patient-c hosen plan upon appropriate notice . ● Expansion of the TEFCA Manner Ex ception : The current limitation of the TEFCA manner exception creates a significant disincenti ve for early adoption, directly addressing concer ns about policy limitations and suggested chang es to TEFCA as raised in RFI Questions PA-1 and PR-6. This exception currently requires both the actor and requestor to be connected to TEFCA for it to apply , meaning actors may be less likely to invest if they cannot use TEFCA as the default exchang e mechanism for the majority of requests . 10 To further TEFCA ’s interoperability functions and consolidate redundant channels (as discussed in TD-6), and consistent with calls to revise exceptions to further EHI access (PR-12), we encourag e expanding this exception. Allowing actors to route EHI requests through TEFCA even if the requester is not a TEFCA participant would reduce reliance on less standardized exchang e methods , promote a unified technical framew ork, and substantially advance the overarc hing goal of nationwide interoperability . ● Har moniz e TEFCA and State Pri vacy Laws : The complex landscape of state privacy laws, particularly for sensiti ve health infor mation, remains one of the most significant hurdles to ensuring secure and compliant interoperability within TEFCA, directly addressing the policy 10 45 C.F.R. § 171.403. 8 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 limitations and hindrances to participation raised in RFI Question PA-1. 11 There are presently no clear guidelines on how QHINs and their participants must navigate these restricti ve state-specific requirements , which increases the risk of unintentional privacy violations , legal exposure , and loss of patient trust and thereb y hinders TEFCA ’s broader adoption. To rectify these concer ns and better balance patient privacy with data access as explored in Question PR-9, please consider issuing comprehensi ve, actionable guidance on harmonizing TEFCA operations with these varying state privacy laws, specifically detailing methodologies to identify applicable regulations , to implement robust data segmentation, and to honor the most string ent consent requirements across the network. Greater clarity will not only bolster data privacy and security , but it will also build the essential trust required to expand health data exchang e nationwide . C. Empo wering Patients thr ough Impr oved Access Although patients are increasingly empo wered to access their health infor mation, many still face significant barriers related to authentication and digital access . Password-based systems often pose challeng es for seniors or individuals without reliable digital access . To meaningfully address these challeng es, as explored in RFI Questions PC-14, PR-9, PR-10, and TD-3, we strongly advocate requiring all Patient Access API requests to be satisfied with a NIST 800-63-3 IAL2 authenticated request. This would standardize digital identity credentials (such as those provided by CLEAR, Login.g ov , or ID.me ) for health access . This critical step, while maintaining appropriate privacy and security protections , would suppor t more accessible and inclusi ve authentication methods , help extend the benefits of patient data access to populations often left behind by traditional credentialing systems , and further enhance patient-centered care. D. Clarifying the Role of Authoriz ed Vendor s Under the Inf ormation Blocking Rule Health-tec hnolog y vendors like Counter part play a critical role in enabling providers to deliver timely , infor med treatment at the point of care. Acting under valid HIPAA-compliant business associate agreements , we facilitate the exchang e and use of electronic health infor mation to directly suppor t provider -directed treatment, care coordination, and clinical quality . Unfor tunately , we have encountered restrictions or fees imposed by data holders . These restrictions limit and delay access , even when the request is made on behalf of a covered entity for a permitted purpose. Writing as a technolog y vendor directly experiencing these challeng es, and in response to RFI Question TD-18 (examples of infor mation blocking practices), these practices often manifest as unreasonable contractual barriers, excessive and non-standardized data access fees, technical 11 See , e.g. , Cal. Code , HSC § 123110; N.Y. Pub. Health Law § 2782; Fla. Stat. § 381.004(3)(e) (imposing stricter standards for disclosure of certain types of sensiti ve health infor mation such as HIV status , mental health, and reproducti ve care). 9 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C
 impediments , or outright non-responsi veness to legitimate requests for EHI access on behalf of providers . This interference with provider -directed data access severely compromises care delivery workflows and patient outcomes . It under mines the “without special effor t” principle for EHI access (as emphasized in RFI Question TD-10) and inhibits mark et competition, a concer n raised in Question PR-12. We recommend clarifying that interference with provider -directed access , particularly through systematic practices that impede the usability of EHI, may still constitute infor mation blocking, even if executed by a non-actor at the direction or allowance of an actor . Furthermore , in alignment with RFI Question TD-18 (policies to discourag e infor mation blocking), there should be a clear, efficient and well-publicized process for authorized vendors to raise and resolv e such concer ns. This would help ensure that data access is not improperly obstr ucted and preser ve the integ rity of the health-infor mation ecosystem. Conclusion We are very excited to work with you on contin uing to impro ve data interoperability in healthcare . We firmly believ e that the dividends from this work will benefit stakeholders across the healthcare ecosystem, including, most impor tantly , the patients . We would appreciate the oppor tunity to further discuss data interoperability and health-tec hnolog y infrastr ucture issues . Best regards, Will Chang Vice President and Head of Government Affairs 10 Docusign Envelope ID: F5D6EE40-80DC-4632-AE08-1A0C2AB43C6C 