June 16, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
PO Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Re: (CMS-0042-NC) Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem; Comments of the
American College of Radiology
The American College of Radiology (ACR)—a professional association representing more than
40,000 physicians practicing diagnostic radiology, interventional radiology, radiation oncology, and
nuclear medicine, as well as medical physicists—appreciates the opportunity to provide
comments to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS) and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP/ONC) addressing the
May 16, 2025, request for information (RFI), “Health Technology Ecosystem” (CMS-0042-NC; 2025-
08701; 90 FR 21034). The ACR is previously on-record with HHS agencies, including CMS,
ASTP/ONC, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), regarding the digital health policy
recommendations discussed below.
General Recommendations
Revisit and implement imaging PAMA AUC consultation requirements. The ACR supports the
appropriate ordering of radiology studies by ordering providers, a practice which has been shown to
significantly reduce costs for patients and the healthcare system-at-large. In doing so, the ACR has
long advocated for implementation of a CMS program requiring ordering providers to use
appropriate use criteria (AUC)-based clinical decision support mechanisms to inform radiology
order entry. Section 218(b) of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (PAMA) mandated such
a program but it has yet to be fully implemented by CMS.
The ACR proposes that CMS revisit the PAMA AUC program and make necessary changes to
address the challenges associated with its implementation. These changes include self-attestation
by ordering providers instead of the requirement to report AUC consultation information on each
claim enabling audits only on an “as-needed” basis. The ACR also supports new exemptions for
small/rural practices and those participating in clinical trials. Our comments in response to CMS’
proposed rule regarding the 2026 rates for the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System
provide additional details about this issue.
Advance image exchange. The ACR supports appropriate access, exchange, and use of electronic
health information (EHI) by providers and patients. For example, we continue to advocate that
imaging IT and exchange service vendors move to electronic sharing capabilities for diagnostic
quality images without the use of compact discs or other physical storage media. HHS should
partner with radiology societies and others to develop and implement a national strategy to
1

modernize image-sharing using existing radiology standards, federal regulatory levers, and
programs.
Improve “Information Blocking” regulatory implementation. The ACR endorsed the original
legislation in the mid-2010s that later became Sec. 4004 of the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016 (or
the “Information Blocking” provision). We have since advocated improvements to HHS’
implementation of Information Blocking regulations and guidance that would prioritize the law’s
original goal of deterring anticompetitive nontechnical barriers to exchange. Several of these
recommendations are addressed in the relevant subsection below, as well as within separate
comments filed by the Physician Clinical Registry Coalition (of which ACR is a member
organization).
Advance safe, effective, and useful AI innovations used by qualified end-users. The ACR Data
Science Institute® (DSI) was established in 2017 to advance safe, effective, and responsible use of
data and AI in radiology practices. The ACR DSI collaborates with radiology professionals, industry,
government (including FDA), patients, and other stakeholders in developing programs and tools in
support of the implementation of AI applications in clinical practice. We welcome collaboration
with CMS, ASTP/ONC, and all other HHS agencies. The ACR DSI’s AI monitoring portfolio includes:
• AI-Central: The most complete and up-to-date online, searchable directory of
commercially available imaging AI products in the United States with more than 200 FDA-
cleared products from over 100 vendors.
• The ACR Recognized Center for Healthcare-AI (ARCH-AI): A recognition program that
outlines expert consensus-based building blocks for the infrastructure, processes, and
governance necessary for AI implementation in real-world practice.
• Assess-AI: The first AI quality registry to monitor and track the performance of AI by
capturing real-world data during clinical use over time.
CMS and other payers should provide fair valuation of new and existing imaging services, including
appropriate recognition of physicians and their practice expenses. For AI innovations that provide
valuable data and additive information unavailable to physicians and their patients without the use
of the tools, new funding must come from outside of the current physician payment system. CMS
should collaborate with radiologists and other physicians to define clinical value and identify
innovations worthy of new payment.
ACR Responses to RFI Questions
C. Providers
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas,
to leverage approved digital health products for their patients?
PR-1 Response. The goal of federal policy should be to advance safe and effective patient care.
This includes ensuring appropriate, high quality medical use of digital health products and other
innovations by qualified end-users. CMS could assist in this assurance by requiring providers to
have processes and mechanisms for governance, model selection, acceptance testing, monitoring,
etc. The ACR’s ARCH-AI recognition program, for example, requires radiology providers using AI to
attest to these capabilities, and the ACR is working toward establishment of a practice
2

accreditation program for radiology AI (See: “The Road Map for ACR Practice Accreditation for
Radiology Artificial Intelligence.” Larson, David B. et al. Journal of the American College of
Radiology, Volume 22, Issue 5, 586 - 592).
Additionally, CMS and its partners should provide new appropriate payment outside of the current
physician payment system for high clinical value digital health products, with clinical value
determined by physicians with expertise in the relevant specialties.
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health information?
PR-6 Response. The Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) is limited in
its applicability to radiology data exchange due to its current focus on basic data classes/elements
collected and shared via EHR-centric IT systems. Participation options and mechanisms are
unclear for radiology practices and other specialist providers. HHS could expand the relevance and
public benefit of the TEFCA program by requiring participating networks to enable electronic
exchange of images and imaging data. This should include a focused effort by the ASTP/ONC to
partner with radiologist societies to incorporate expanded radiology data classes/elements into the
U.S. Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) standard.
PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality, timely,
and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital product
ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be mitigated for
providers?
PR-7 Response. Image exchange service vendors are subject to 45 CFR Part 171 (Information
Blocking) regulatory requirements as “health information network/exchange (HIE/HIN)” actors.
CMS, ASTP/ONC, and OIG could help these actors comply by providing informational resources to
move the health IT industry and image exchange service vendors toward policies that advance
interoperability and data sharing between disparate products/systems and customers.
PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information blocking
exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subparts B through D) to
further the access, exchange, and use of EHI and to promote market competition?
PR-12 Response. The regulations under 45 CFR 171 Subparts B through D are extensive, complex,
and nebulous for many healthcare providers with limited legal/compliance resources. Yet,
Congress intended for the Information Blocking “exceptions” to provide compliance clarity to
actors making good faith attempts to comply. The ACR recommends that ASTP/ONC make the
following revisions/additions to Subparts B through D:
• Implement flexible and simplified provider-specific exceptions. ASTP/ONC should
establish a separate set of provider-only exceptions to eliminate complications that arise
from applying exceptions across multiple provider, developer, and network actor types.
Provider-specific exceptions should be clear, flexible, and useable by various clinical
settings and provider types. These exceptions should ensure that HHS compliance
requirements carefully avoid HHS impositions on physician-patient communications and
medical decision-making autonomy.
3

• Implement a new exception for providers who withhold as-of-yet-unreviewed and
unverified EHI, including EHI generated by medical devices. Medical device labelling
and/or instructions for safe and effective use typically assume intended user review of the
output EHI as a key risk mitigation. Therefore, sending medical device data directly and/or
immediately to a patient is usually an “off-label” use of the device in unintended ways not
considered during FDA’s vetting of that device for its safety and effectiveness. Additionally,
providers occasionally send EHI to subspecialists during the medical decision-making
process, and academic centers also require review by attending physicians of residents’
and fellows’ work with certain EHI. As patients increasingly use AI-enabled digital health
technologies to inform their own decision-making, the quality and accuracy of any patient-
accessible EHI is critical. Therefore, withholding access to certain EHI until it can be
appropriately reviewed by a qualified provider is often reasonable and necessary.
• Improve and finalize the previously proposed exception in the HTI-2 proposed rule
under §171.304 (“Requestor preferences”). This proposal should be finalized by
ASTP/ONC in a manner that continues to enable provider-actors to routinely request patient
preferences about EHI access during the check-in process (for example, via a question on
patient intake forms). This is critical to ensure the applicability and scalability of this
exception by many radiology practices and other providers.
PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(3)), without a
current information blocking disincentive established by CMS, what would be the most
effective disincentive for that category of provider?
PR-13 Response. CMS and OIG should focus Information Blocking investigations and application
of provider disincentives on clearly intentional, repetitive, and objectively anticompetitive
behaviors by major actors rather than by individuals. Large systems and major institutions typically
influence EHI access, exchange, and use within a given region or facility more than individual
physicians, physician practices/departments, or smaller provider facilities.
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance or
negatively impact data exchange?
PR-14 Response. CMS and ASTP/ONC can increase the quality and quantity of provider-submitted
information blocking complaints by refocusing and improving educational resources, guidance,
and other messaging about Information Blocking rules and their importance for ensuring provider-
and vendor-level competition and fairness.
The legislative policy inserted as Sec. 4004 (the “Information Blocking Provision”) into the 21st
Century Cures Act of 2016 was originally intended by Congress and advocates to deter
anticompetitive, artificial, nontechnical barriers to exchange by IT vendors, networks, and major
institutions. At the time, nontechnical exchange barriers encountered by radiology providers and
others were common due to referring providers’ need for, and reliance on, certified EHR technology
for compliance with the Medicare/Medicaid EHR Incentive Program (or “Meaningful Use”).
Examples of those barriers included data silos, unfair or predatory fees, subsidized technology
donations and other policies to control order entry software and connections between providers
(i.e., to influence the flow of referrals and orders), and other policies that adversely impacted many
providers and limited the care choices of their patients.
4

To date, ASTP/ONC has ineffectively communicated how Information Blocking regulations also
protect provider-level access, use, and exchange of EHI. Most stakeholders misunderstand these
rules to be limited to, or focused on, patient-level access. As a result, many physicians, practices,
and small providers seem unaware that they too can report dubious behaviors, fees, and policies
they experience from certain competitors, networks, and vendors.
The ACR appreciates consideration of these comments and recommendations by CMS and
ASTP/ONC staff. We welcome further discussion with HHS agencies on these matters. Please send
any questions or requests to Michael Peters, ACR Senior Director, Government Affairs, at
mpeters@acr.org.
Sincerely,
Dana Smetherman, MD, MPH, MBA, FACR, FSBI
Chief Executive Officer
American College of Radiology
5