Nava response to:
Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services
Health Technology
Ecosystem
Request for Information
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Point of contact Nava PBC
Services Rohan Bhobe 601 13th St NW, Floor 12
Co-founder and CEO Washington, DC 20005
June 16, 2025 contracts@navapbc.com navapbc.com
(630) 544-8106
The data contained herein is confidential, and proprietary to Nava and is intended only for the use by the recipient.
Any disclosure in whole or in part in any manner is prohibited unless authorized in writing by Nava.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
Table of Contents
Table of Contents 1
1.0 Nava’s Visioning 2
1.1 Support centralized, secure options for personal health data and proactive patient actions 2
1.2 Empower patients by facilitating control of their healthcare data 2
1.3 Improve awareness and value proposition of CMS digital solutions 3
1.4 Enable developers and the healthcare organizations they support 3
1.5 Invest in interoperability– specifically FHIR 4
1.6 Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data 5
1.7 Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints 5
1.8 Standardize required reporting measures for ACOs 6
1.9 Explore cutting-edge technologies 7
2.0 Nava’s Response to Questions 7
2.1 Patients and Caregivers 7
2.1.1 Patient Needs 7
2.1.2 Data Access and Integration 17
2.1.3 Information Blocking and Digital Identity 19
2.2 Providers 21
2.2.1 Digital Health Apps 21
2.3 Payers 23
2.4 Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks 26
2.4.1 Ecosystem 26
2.4.2 Technical Standards and Certification 29
2.4.3 Data Exchange 30
2.5 Value-Based Care Organizations 31
2.5.1 Digital Health Adoption 31
2.5.2 Technical Standards 33
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 1
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
1.0 Nava’s Visioning
1.1 Support centralized, secure options for personal health data and proactive
patient actions
● Log in to one place only. No more multiple portal juggling.
● Repo of source of truth can act as a source of truth for providers and technical solutions
instead of frankenstein-ing disparate data sources.
● From lab results and immunizations to appointments and medications (past and
upcoming).
● Expand health history to include family health history.
● Distinguish data captured by patients (such as Apple AFib history).
● Simplify healthcare management for oneself or caregivers.
Benefits
● Patients and caregivers can confidently enter the digital health ecosystem.
● Patients can more easily move between different healthcare providers/networks, which
can especially help during care transitions, when patients may be most vulnerable.
● Reduce administrative burden for providers for scheduling and maintaining
appointments.
1.2 Empower patients by facilitating control of their healthcare data
● Sharing data in a user-centered way with trusted entities (health providers, caregivers,
payers, etc).
○ Patient has control over specific aspects of their health information being shared,
where possible, to empower patients with various actions across their health
journey, such as:
■ Assessing and enrolling in an insurance plan tailored to their needs
■ Interfacing with their care team
■ Reporting fraudulent claims and tracking the results of their reporting
○ When sharing, patient is able to understand who is receiving their healthcare info
and how it will be used.
● Reduce patient stress of managing health related to picking a plan. Patients use the Plan
Compare tool on Medicare.gov for Part C, D and Medigap plans, but ultimately need
more tailored recommendations to inform their decisions. Personalized plan
recommendations that keep them with their preferred providers/pharmacies, and on their
prescriptions with minimal impact to their finances comes from leveraging their own
healthcare data.
● Patients and caregivers can trust the apps they use to share health data with trusted
entities like health providers and caregivers.
● Simplify and explain claims/clinical data - what does X aspect of a claim mean?
○ Patients who are not as health-literate want to know more
○ Support patients in understanding their health history and help them plan for the
future.
○ Implementation guides for how to map claims data/EOBs to EHR use cases
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 2
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
○ Explore/pilot potential shift to a clinical data paradigm, such that payers can
translate relevant info from clinical data.
■ This could explore creative uses of an AI layer or blockchain technology
Benefits
● Potential to increase health outcomes and shared cost savings by allowing patients to
monitor their health independently.
○ Correlated with reduced costs by having fewer duplicated procedures, reduced
imaging, and improved patient safety. They can also improve healthcare quality,
such as improved medication reconciliation and immunization and health record
completeness.
● Reduces payer cost for call centers: when patients fully understand their coverage they
don’t need to call the payer to determine if a provider, procedure, prescription, or visit is
covered.
1.3 Improve awareness and value proposition of CMS digital solutions
● Partner with trusted organizations for older adults and Medicare.gov to market tools to
patients and caregivers, benefitting both the end users of the tools as well as the tool
makers themselves.
● When presenting existing solutions, clearly show how they support business goals and
solve pain points for payers, ACOs, and provider organizations. Some user research may
be beneficial in determining these business goals.
■ Include detailed information on how digital solutions can help payers meet cost
savings measures and improve quality and utilization performance
■ Include detailed use cases that explain how digital solutions might be
operationalized within specific programs. For example, the AB2D API can be
used to supplement data for Medication Therapy Management (MTM) programs
or detection of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse.
● Point patients to existing tools to help them choose a plan that meets their needs
according to their own medical history.
● Partner with trusted organizations for older adults and Medicare.gov to market tools to
patients and caregivers.
● Market APIs to vendors, who are already pervasive at ACO, provider, and payer
organizations. Technologically mature vendors can serve as translators and contribute as
a driving force for adoption.
Benefits
● Increases opportunities for broader adoption across patient, provider, and caregiver
communities
1.4 Enable developers and the healthcare organizations they support
● Standardize detailed documentation resources, including pre-built logic and/or
capabilities for mapping claims data, representative synthetic/sample data, and quickstart
guides.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 3
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
● Utilize and promote open-source repositories that allow developers to open tickets,
provide feedback, and contribute code. Such opportunities for open-source contributions
are not easily visible. Existing forums, such as Google Groups and GitHub repositories,
have low traffic relative to use.
● Design solutions with developers in mind, following best practices and principles of
developer experience design.
● Provide moderated community forums that enable self-service troubleshooting
● Build seamless authentication/authorization/registration workflows for APIs.
Benefits
● FHIR experience is in high-demand. Improved educational resources for developers will
help upskill this area of expertise.
● Improves speed and quality of developed digital solutions
● Builds trust and shared responsibility with developers
● Enables new, novel, and more involved digital products and solutions
1.5 Invest in interoperability– specifically FHIR
● The flexible, robust, and user-driven nature of FHIR allows data sources to be
aggregated, creating a more holistic view of patient health history. In turn, all
stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem can take advantage of a more data-driven
approach to provide a higher quality of care and improved health outcomes.
● Integrate pieces of a patient’s medical history from across disparate systems into one
holistic, comprehensive view, similar to a tool like You Need a Budget (YNAB). YNAB
connects to various financial entities, from banks to credit cards, and brings all
transactions into one place. While those financial entities may not retain the user’s
financial transaction data for more than 1-2 years, YNAB allows their users to store their
entire financial history as long as they like.
● Integrate pieces of a patient’s medical history from across disparate systems into one
holistic, comprehensive view, to extend apps’ usefulness beyond a single app.
● Interoperable claims data significantly lowers the high technological barrier to entry and
associated costs around aggregating and mapping claims data in different formats. Data
types vary widely in a range of quality, detail, and update frequency. Aggregating,
mapping, storing, and maintaining these claims data is one of, if not the single most
challenging, resource-intensive, and blocking step in implementation workflows.
○ (For example, mapping MBIs to CMS beneficiary IDs is an impossible task at
many organizations, which prevents them from using CMS claims data.)
● To offer a specific example, some vendors and early adopters of the Beneficiary Claims
Data API (BCDA), Data at the Point of Care (DPC), and Blue Button 2.0 bulk FHIR
claims data APIs provided by CMS are using some or all of these interoperable data
sources to quickly and easily spin up thorough, detailed, and holistic health history
profiles of enrollee populations. Using these 3 interoperable, existing APIs in conjunction
is a powerful, lightweight immediate-term solution to the larger challenge of making
health data available to all stakeholders in the healthcare system.
Benefits
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 4
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
● Creates more rich data sets for AI models, which can be used to create more accurate
predicative risk models, run more sophisticated analytics, and automate reporting. (See
ClosedLoop)
● Facilitate a gradual shift to support upskilling and technology investment (especially if
prior to mandate).
● Significantly lowers the high technological barrier and enables organizations to use CMS
claims data by lowering costs associated with supporting and aggregating data formats.
● Encourages adoption by creating a universal, shared language and system for managing
claims data.
● Mandates/incentivizes EMRs and health IT implementors to support bulk FHIR API
integrations for provider use.
1.6 Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
● CMS should improve their own standards-based API offerings to better-conform to the
available standards. CMS is well-positioned to lead creation/evolution of practical
standards for real-world data and use cases. FHIR data should be conformant with FHIR
specifications.
● Organizations do not have transparency into CMS data warehouses, data pipelines, and
clinician timelines, which may affect the time at which beneficiary data becomes
available. This complex process is not well understood and may not be adequately
explained in documentation, which causes a misalignment of expectations and perceived
lag.
● One of the primary blockers to adoption of CMS claims data is that the data is not timely
enough to be useful. Targeted health interventions and other programs that improve
health outcomes and cost savings typically require data that is updated more often than
monthly.
● For value-based care organizations, timely data is a key factor for success. VBCs rely on
timely data for time-sensitive clinical interventions, real-time monitoring and reporting,
and predictive risk modelling, and ultimately, cost savings. ACOs are utilizing the
Beneficiary Claims Data API (BCDA) for access to more timely data, which has become
an invaluable tool. Further development to expand resources and support for BCDA
would help users meet these needs.
Benefits
● Transparency into data pipelines helps build trust with users
● Weekly-updated data would enable more time-sensitive health interventions and would
help providers prevent acute health events and improve cost savings.
● The most impactful use cases for these data depend on timelines and accuracy, these
aspects must be improved before organizations can adopt with confidence.
1.7 Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints
● This directory should include necessary info to reduce manual outreach and automate
data sharing as much as possible while also remaining private and secure. Some key data
elements to include would be universal claims identifiers, National Provider Identifiers
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 5
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
(NPIs), contact information, and participation information about health facilities and
providers.
● Payers should be responsible for maintaining and bearing the cost of this system, as they
are best positioned to also be responsible for maintaining and storing the complete
historical health data for the patient populations they are responsible for. It is key that
these two data services be managed in the same systems so that claims data and provider
data remains in sync.
● Identify legal and regulatory blockers to effective data sharing and clarify how partners
can stay compliant while contributing to interoperability efforts.
○ Define HIPAA’s “treatment” relationship for the New Patient use cases of
data-sharing and propose secure ways to establish the valid use of data prior to
first appointment.
Benefits
● Improves capabilities around compliant and secure data sharing among payers, providers,
and ACOs, which would reduce costs and enable more data-driven health solutions.
● Forwards the organic development of a universal shared language, format, and
understanding of claims data.
● Creates an equal level of access for all participating entities, reducing disparity between
large payer networks, small provider networks, organizations serving rural populations,
and value-based care entities and ACOs.
● Solves resource-intensive issues with attribution and billing. Attribution data may not be
available from various sources, leading to challenges around transparency and
interpreting the patient health journey and targeted coordination of benefits across
multiple payers (e.g. dual eligibility).
○ Unclear attribution can also cause uncertainty around compliance, as some data
may not be applied to some uses or shared with some teams at a payer
organization.
● Increases visibility and, we can infer, also increases referrals to relevant providers and
ACOs within a health system.
1.8 Standardize required reporting measures for ACOs
● Many ACOs have minimal budget for investment in innovative digital solutions. These
ACOs may not have the same data access, infrastructure, and availability that may be
present at larger, more technologically advanced organizations. Therefore, reporting
should be simplified and standardized as much as possible.
● ACOs are motivated by cost savings, decreased financial risk, and improved health
outcomes. Standardized quality measures and reporting requirements should correlate
with these motivations (which, in large part, they already do) to incentive use and
effectiveness.
● Standard required reporting measures can be based on data that is already available in
CARIN IG for Blue Button FHIR API data.
Benefits
● Lower costs, technological requirements, and administrative burden for ACOs, allowing
them to allocate resources to quality care for patients
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 6
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
● Reporting measures that appeal to existing ACO business goals and motivations will
incentivize adoption and engagement
1.9 Explore cutting-edge technologies
● Emerging digital and data technologies, such as AI, machine learning, blockchain, edge
computing, quantum computing, digital twin/simulated modeling technology and others
will offer significant potential for transforming healthcare. These include data
interoperability, care coordination, health equity, and value-based care performance.
● To drive innovation and lead the industry, CMS must continue to strategically investigate,
validate, and incorporate these advanced technologies, with the goal of advancing
standards and transforming healthcare delivery, care coordination and value-base value.
Benefits
● Responsible exploration of emerging technologies will support value-based innovation,
advance healthcare at scale, improve patient outcomes, reduce cost and providers
administrative burden, while supporting compliance and transparency.
2.0 Nava’s Response to Questions
2.1 Patients and Caregivers
2.1.1 Patient Needs
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones’ health information in
one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)?
a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided?
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one
portal or system to access all such health information?
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were
unavailable? What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones’
complete health information electronically and using it for managing health
conditions or finding the best care (for example, limitations in functionality, user
friendliness, or access to basic technology infrastructure)?
Current offerings providing health information for patients and caregivers are very fragmented,
making it difficult to optimize care and personal health actions.
● Visioning:
○ Support centralized, secure options for personal health data
○ Empower patients with their healthcare data
○ Invest in interoperability
a. Examples of app benefits. Some tools in the marketplace today (tendercare, Illuminator,
Medisafe) help consolidate some information into the hands of patients and loved ones to
manage health and care. These applications securely connect to trusted third-party data
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 7
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
sources (such as the Blue Button 2.0 API or Apple Health) to bring in information on
Medicare claims history, or medication dosage and instructions. Some existing EHR patient
portals also may integrate with 3rd party applications. Such information in patients’ hands
can be very powerful for managing health and improving health outcomes, such as the ability
to:
● View providers, medications, and conditions from Medicare claims data, reminders
about doctor’s visits, and other wellness and prevention prompts patients to take
actions to improve and maintain their health. This can be especially helpful for
patients who have complex needs across many care providers and medical groups.
● Set (and share) reminders for taking medications doses properly, and receive alerts
about possible contraindications.
○ Track details about missed medication dosages with care team
● Review claims data for accuracy or fraud.
● The impact of these types of tools on patients and caregivers is significant:
○ Patients feel more control stemming from a deeper understanding of their
health, a situation where little control is ever possible.
○ Facilitates patients and caregivers to be active, engaged, empowered
participants in their health.
● When implemented fully, they even have additional benefits for:
○ ACOs
■ More engaged, empowered patients when it comes to preventative services
will help ACOs reach their goals for improved health outcomes, quality
measurement scores, and shared cost savings.
■ Patients who have seen a provider outside of their ACO network are
empowered to share that data back to the ACO network, improving data
access and care coordination
○ Payers
■ More engaged, empowerment of patients when it comes to preventative
services can help keep costs lower by avoiding expensive treatments.
■ Improved access to patient data can relieve challenges for billing and
attribution.
○ Vendors
■ A shared vision for data formats and quality can help alignment on
technical requirements, cut costs, and enable more sophisticated and
comprehensive data solutions.
b. Valuable workflows for health information. However, there are limitations and
inconsistencies to the current offerings:
● A patient may not be able to connect to all medically relevant data sources, such as
retrieving details about Medicare Advantage or supplemental plan claims. Depending
on the patient, this may be a significant enough gap that the tool may not be useful.
○ Even if the data source is available, if they are a new user of that system, the
user will not have longitudinal data (e.g., brand new Medicare patients trying
to find a Medicare Advantage plan).
● What data patients can track for themselves and then share with the relevant care
team (i.e. tracking AFib events in Apple Health, or recording relevant family health
history and then sharing with a provider or caregiver).
● Without a Medicare.gov account, patients cannot connect to third-party applications
leveraging Blue Button 2.0.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 8
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
● Caregivers already designated as authorized representatives on Medicare.gov, for a
patient, must have the patient also grant access to Blue Button 2.0 via each
application.
○ This could be a seamless experience for patients to designate an authorized
representative.
● Caregivers struggle to determine active conditions needing treatments, versus prior
health history and conditions.
● Multiple logins to connect these data sources, which may be challenging for older,
memory-impacted, or less tech-literate users.
c. Unavailable data types. These use cases do not appear to be met by the marketplace:
● Control who sees what information. For example, only allowing a caregiver to
access current conditions, medications, and providers (or any specific subset of this).
Our experience managing complex permissions structures at scale leads us to
recommend that any implementation use attribute-based authorization, which scales
gracefully with increasing complexity, rather than role-based authorization, which
eventually can produce contortions in role definitions and potentially lead to security
challenges/incidents.
● Claim coverage. Definitively knowing whether claims have been covered by
Medicare, Medigap, Medicaid, VA, etc., in a timely manner. Invoices from providers
are delayed and do not provide enough information to determine if a claim was
approved. Further, most of this information is received via paper billing. The longer
the delay, the more undue stress and anxiety increases, worrying about what the
patient will be responsible for.
○ Correlating data. There is no effective way to store information to correlate data
via paperless bills. At best, current systems allow individuals to save PDF files,
which equates to either printing the information locally or scrolling through
multiple pages of information across providers.
● Obstacles to accessing data.
○ Medical imaging is rarely available; this results in patients taking a picture of a
screen at a doctor’s office. Then, correlating that screenshot with data from a
claim or a provider is difficult.
○ Accuracy and timeliness of information submitted by providers and payers (i.e.
provider coverage, provider accepting new patients, provider location). The Care
Compare site currently acts as a hub for some of this information, and CMS could
look to explore opportunities to expand or coordinate this work on CMS.
Shared pain points with other healthcare stakeholders
● Providers
○ Data fragmentation can lead to running unnecessary tests, medications, or
imaging
● Payers
○ Unnecessary tests, medications, and imaging, cost payers more, and can lead to
continually increasing healthcare costs overall
● Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
○ Have built an array of custom applications that are challenging to maintain
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 9
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today?
a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet?
b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer?
a. New apps. The apps that exist today help empower patients with their information, but few
fully suit the needs of today’s patients. This may be because of the following limitations:
● Incentives to protect proprietary data and competitive advantage
● Inconsistent FHIR implementations due to complex interoperability requirements and
best practices, lack of robust developer documentation and support, legacy systems,
and/or access to expertise.
● Low adoption rates by patients and providers due to poor awareness/reach of the
value being offered and how it can enhance their healthcare experience.
● Low adoption rates by developers because of low visibility into the value of the data
(developers may want to use sandbox and synthetic data to define business
requirements, but this is not a substitute for production data) or awareness of the
resources available to them.
● Using AI to handle care coordination and education/engagement of patients has
potential, but should be balanced with doing it in a safe, secure manner that informs
the patient about how their data is being used. We are working with other CMS
partners/projects who are currently examining the safe and effective use of AI to
deliver personalized, real-time drug cost and coverage information and could leverage
that expertise to implement AI safely in this setting also. Our experience here can also
help align these initiatives and avoid duplicating efforts within the agency.
● Incomplete health history data provided by the care team or the patient themselves
due to the lack of broad adoption of technical infrastructure to support such sharing.
However, the above can be addressed by policy, technology, and logistics solutions to allow apps
that fully address the following five patient and caregiver experiences:
1. Handle the logistics of your care: apps should be integrated with all providers to suggest
covered providers who are accepting patients (potentially pulling from the Care Compare
site), suggest and/or schedule appointments, determine if those appointments need to be
in-person or telehealth, labs, immunizations, etc. Logistics include even getting set up with
new providers and their systems, supporting patients in filling in the details of their health
history, down to the transportation logistics of how to get to and from each appointment,
when the patient is unable to drive.
a. Benefits for
1. Patients and caregivers
a. Reduce logistics churn for managing health
i. Patients have at their fingertips the data they need to give to
their providers, without having to repetitively (and perhaps
erroneously) write down that information again and again
during check-in.
b. Provides telehealth alternatives when it benefits the patient most, and
expands the network of providers rural patients could see
i. Removes challenges of coordinating transportation to and from
medical appointments
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 10
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
ii. Ensure desired health outcomes for working with providers
iii. Consolidate provider visits with related labs to maximize time at
the provider’s office
2. Providers and ACOs
a. Reduce administrative burden for providers and ACOs
b. Establish more predictable staffing schedules for routine appointments
for providers
c. Receive consistent, reliable information compared with other providers
in other systems from patients about their history
2. Support ongoing health after provider visits: These apps should be able to read the
patient’s clinical data and provide next steps to create a single place for actionable
recommendations. These health recommendations could include visit notes that often get
lost, such as specific PCP exercise recommendations to address a musculoskeletal issue,
provider-suggested supplements, and even supporting FSA purchases and claims for
reimbursement. Reducing post-visit frictions could then provide developers with the
opportunity to potentially enable carefully considered AI tools to remind a patient that they
haven’t yet scheduled or received a yearly flu vaccine.
a. Benefits:
1. Easy and proactive health monitoring: patients can easily reference health
action items from their provider, regardless of portal
3. Understanding coverage and costs across multiple plans: These apps should be able to
give patients a holistic view of their health coverage; they should show where there may be
coverage gaps for diagnosed conditions based on their health history, and prior procedures.
They should also have a financial perspective: listing the total cost to the patient for
procedures or treatments that have lesser coverage, the total cost of combined insurances per
month, real-time view of deductible status, show the claims that impacted the deductible, pay
bills, and see all claims from all payers in one place. When applicable, these apps should also
prompt and recommend the best insurance plans for the patient, optimizing for their needs
during open enrollment, based on health history.
a. Benefits:
1. See the whole picture of health insurance coverage, and be able to delve in
where relevant
2. Understand how health visits impact the patient’s financial situation
3. Regain some control over health finances
4. Combine multiple public insurance health cards and related services into one: Create a
combined digital insurance card that combines multiple insurance cards and related
government services into one. This enhanced digital insurance card would expand to other
federal / state health programs, including: SSDI (disability), SSI (low-income disability), VA,
Medicaid, SNAP, enhanced Medicare card where patients can easily turn on/off what
information is shown and when, and could serve as an enhanced MA card that includes all
pertinent information for providers.
a. Benefits:
1. Reduces potential fraud for lost or stolen cards
2. Helps patients with memory or organization complications
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 11
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
3. Empowers patients with ability to control who sees what card information and
when
b. Challenges for this solution:
1. Digital wallet capabilities are subject to substantial scrutiny and review that
make launching this product a challenge
2. Cross-program and cross-policy cooperation and standardization
5. Simplifying the process of adding authorized reps - Create a centralized method for
granting access to medical history data; patients should have the flexibility to grant
authorized reps access once for any third-party apps a patient uses, or choose which apps
their authorized reps can access. Patient comfort with either approach varies, so it’s
imperative to be able to offer both approaches.
a. Benefits:
1. Provides patients with a single place to grant access to their authorized reps,
instead of determining how to do it in each app.
b. CMS’ position. CMS is uniquely positioned to empower patients in taking actionable steps to
improve their health outcomes. CMS could achieve this by expanding on the Beneficiary FHIR
Database (BFD) migration to IDR and begin to aggregate even more claims and clinical data.
This would strengthen the Blue Button 2.0 API value proposition to 3rd-party developers to meet
these needs. For example, oftentimes access to health information is related to claims and claims
payment across Medicare, Medigap and providers. For additional details on this, please refer to
the response in PC-9. CMS should fill the role that other payers have no incentive to fill by
modeling provisioning coverage information from multiple payers like Medicare, Medicaid,
and Veterans Affairs. CMS could also ensure the standard application of FHIR and consistency
of the data.
CMS could also explore provisioning claims and clinical data from these other payers to help
patients have all important health information about themselves at their fingertips. Centralizing
this helps patients make crucial decisions about their health. This is also an opportunity for CMS
to model patient-centered design principles to the community when considering the data and how
it is provisioned. For example, is it most helpful to use the claims paradigm for patients to access
this data? Or do they think about their data in terms of the conditions that they have and are
treating? Do they need both?
This could build towards models where patient information can be pulled in to new providers or
providers with an incomplete health record of the patient. This would reduce the amount of time
patients/providers spend exchanging that information and reduce errors that can occur during that
exchange. This also directly benefits rural and smaller practices, who are more
resource-constrained. This information exchange could potentially be done with QR codes, as
Dr. Josh Mandel demonstrated with SMART health cards. Providers could then update against
payer information for relevant information like a name change, change in coverage, etc.
CMS also has the opportunity to improve patient experience by modernizing workflows on the
provider side, such as offering a provider directory that offers a standardized list of patient
resources, with eligibility requirements so patients can get faster approval for services.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 12
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
Shared pain points with other healthcare stakeholders
● Patients and caregivers
○ Juggling multiple portals, logins, and methods of scheduling appointments and
following up on a visit.
○ Deciphering next steps
○ No effective way to understand the full scope of health insurance coverage
○ No consistent or clear way to grant an authorized representative access.
● Providers
○ Making medical decisions or diagnosing patients without the full understanding of
a patient’s full health history
● ACOs
○ Increased administrative burden with an incomplete health picture of a patient
● Payers
○ Missed or unnecessary tests, medications, and imaging, cost payers more, and can
lead to continually increasing healthcare costs overall
● Vendors
○ Incompatible systems can across the health experience for patients result in
technical and coordination challenges for implementation
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in
these digital health products?
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health
products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes
(not approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be
used if there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or
program design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital
health products (for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement
adjustments, or new beneficiary communications)?
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider
generated data on patients?
Changing a group’s behavior always requires understanding their motivations and needs. Before
embarking on any large-scale development or promotion effort, CMS must first understand
patient and caregiver needs and concerns about using digital health products. The scope of this
work should include populations with a wide range of comfort with technology: from those who
are technology skeptics to those who are technology experts. This work would reveal the barriers
between CMS and its partners and those who can benefit from digital health products. Based on
previous research we conducted for CMS’s BB2.0, BCDA, and DPC APIs, we already know of a
few barriers: public trust in government has eroded, the digital divide has left many of the most
vulnerable behind, access to high-speed internet falls off significantly in rural areas.
Visioning:
● Support centralized, secure options for personal health data
● Empower patients with their healthcare data
● Invest in interoperability
● Improve awareness for CMS solutions
● Enable developers
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 13
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
a. CMS’ Role: CMS has a duty to protect those it serves, and should continue to take an
active role in reviewing and approving digital health products for their adherence to
security and privacy standards for patients. There are a few opportunity areas that CMS
could consider:
i. Review Criteria: If CMS assessed products on efficacy, quality or impact on
both, CMS would need to delineate the standards for assessment for each distinct
use case. No app exists today that fully encompasses the totality of patients’ or
caregivers’ needs, and every patient may not be looking to solve the same
problems; the standards for assessing each product should shift depending on the
use cases it meets.
1. For example, an app that helps patients and caregivers choose their
insurance plan should be assessed on the outcomes of supporting choosing
the most effective plan for the patient. Those review standards should be
different for an app that supports patients managing a chronic illness.
ii. Increasing adoption: After establishing a foundational understanding of patient
and caregiver needs, CMS should collaborate with its technology partners to build
tools to meet those needs, and facilitate access to patients and caregivers to
continue testing products against meeting those needs: from testing concepts to
usability using tools like the Kano method to measure the products’ desirability
and market fit.
1. For example, CMS can better support tools like Twilight's Illuminator,
which supports caregivers and patients in viewing their comprehensive
health picture from clinical and coverage information in one single
location. Today, if a patient is on Medicare Advantage, they only see a
fractional picture of their health, which will likely discourage them from
using the tool.
In this example, the patient/caregiver is able to connect to the Blue Button
2.0 API, but is unable to connect to their Medicare Advantage plan, so
they only have access to 5 claims, in the past 11 years - providing very
little usable health information for the patient.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 14
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
iii. Patient Outreach Considerations: Consider opportunities to educate patients on
the value and benefits of real world data exchange to enable preventive care, care
coordination and healthcare innovations.
1. For example, combining the power of medical claims data, patient
generated health data from wearable technology, and EHRs can accelerate
clinical trials to more rapidly identify unmet medical needs.
iv. Additional data sources: Informed by impact to patient population and difficulty
of integration, CMS should consider data sources such as Medicare Advantage
data, long term post acute care data, and Medigap data.
b. Timely access: CMS should consider:
i. Offering enhanced interoperability and data exchange, such as implementation of
SMART App Launch v2.0.
ii. Continue to scale its current level of developer support and documentation as it
looks to foster collaboration and interoperability in the industry.
Shared pain points with other healthcare stakeholders
● Patients and caregivers
○ Lack of trust and transparency: The health apps that exist today don’t have to
prove their stated value to their users beyond getting star ratings in their
respective app marketplaces. With no clear measurement standard, it’s hard for
patients and caregivers to know if a product will support their efforts towards
managing their health.
○ Slower innovation in digital health: App organizations may overlook or
misunderstand the needs of those in rural areas, as they may not be as profitable
for those organizations.
○ Increased health product fragmentation: Without the perspective of CMS to
guide health app development and interoperability, the digital health ecosystem
will grow even more complex, further frustrating patients and caregivers trying to
accomplish essential health tasks.
● Providers
○ Added administrative and operational burdens: Providers already struggle
with inconsistent data exchange, interoperability challenges, and navigating
multiple vendor platforms without federal guidance or support, which can lead to
inefficiencies and increased workload.
○ Difficulty in distinguishing quality products: Since providers are not tech
experts, without CMS evaluation and oversight, providers may find it challenging
to differentiate high-quality, evidence-based digital health solutions from
lower-quality or unproven products.
● ACOs
○ Hindered care coordination and quality improvement: ACOs rely heavily on
health IT and digital tools to coordinate care and improve patient outcomes.
Without CMS review and endorsement of digital health products, ACOs face
challenges in adopting interoperable and effective digital solutions that facilitate
seamless data exchange and care coordination across providers, which is central
to their mission of delivering high-quality, cost-efficient care
● Payers
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 15
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
○ Administrative and compliance burdens: CMS updates often bring new
documentation, coding, billing, and interoperability requirements that payers must
comply with. The lack of CMS review on digital health products can increase
complexity for payers in evaluating product efficacy and integrating them into
existing workflows, raising administrative costs and compliance challenges
● Vendors
○ Increased health product fragmentation: Without the perspective of CMS to
guide health app development and interoperability, the digital health ecosystem
infrastructure will continue to diverge, making cross-product integration even less
attainable.
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and
easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior
experience using digital tools and services?
Login management. One of the biggest barriers to accessing healthcare information for
everyone, regardless of experience with digital tools, involves management of login information.
Each service requires its own method of authentication, so in addition to the technological
challenges of online/mobile access and tech savvyness, patients and caregivers shoulder the
additional burden of maintaining multiple usernames, passwords, and multiple factors of
authentication.
Additionally, Medicare patients use at least two major government services – Social Security and
Medicare. CMS is in a position to provide a unified method to access government social
services. For guidance on determining a strategy to implement a robust auth tool, refer to our
answer to PC-14.
Educating patients about data value. At the core of the digital experience is the patient’s health
data. Best practices for all Medicare patients, especially those with limited digital experience,
include clearly articulating to the patient:
● The value and import of their health data
● Who their health data is being shared with
● What their health data is being used for
It’s essential to approach balancing these elements to build trust through a user-friendly and
transparent interface. Transparency leads to trust, which encourages adoption.
Accessibility features. Beyond helping them to understand their health data, patients and
caregivers with limited experience with digital tools need tools that leverage accessibility best
practices like:
● Use plain language throughout
● Save their progress so they can come back later if feeling flustered and not feel rushed
● Large buttons and spacing for those with those with reduced motor ability
● Transcripts for any audio or video
● Clear data security settings they can change at any time
● Responsive at higher magnification (zoom 150-400%) and different screen sizes
● Use advanced, thorough error validation to minimize issues with forms and data entry
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 16
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
Visioning
● Support centralized, secure options for personal health data
● Improve awareness of CMS digital solutions
● Invest in interoperability
Shared pain points with other healthcare stakeholders
● Payer
○ Supporting the needs of those with limited digital experience
● Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
○ Create and maintain resource-intensive digital products, which may be optimized
for functionality over usability for patients and caregivers
○ Supporting the needs of those with limited digital experience
2.1.2 Data Access and Integration
PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient demographic,
Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D), what additional CMS data sources do
developers view as most valuable for inclusion in the API to enable more useful digital
products for patients and caretakers?
a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today?
b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API experience?
c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API?
The Blue Button 2.0 API experience could improve with providing additional data sources
available within CMS, using a unified login experience, and supporting patients or caregivers
reporting fraud.
These data sources within CMS’ purview would help patients:
● See a full claims data view: Part C data, state Medicaid claims data
● Review and report discrepancies early so as not to disrupt their care: Partially
adjudicated claims data, long term post acute care data
● Make informed healthcare decisions: Prior authorization claims
Unified login experience. A unified login experience across the patient experience would mean
the patient or caregiver can use the same login information for SSA.gov as with Medicare.gov.
This would also facilitate them using apps that leverage the Blue Button 2.0 API. This would
also extend to those on Medicare who are also receiving Medicaid benefits. For guidance on
determining a strategy to implement a robust auth tool, refer to our answer to PC-14.
Reporting fraud. Provide a pathway for patients to easily report fraud or discrepancies with
their health information. This would empower patients to take action with their health data. After
reporting the fraud, show the reporter the status of their report: has it been reviewed, addressed,
or acted on? Then show them the impact the reporter had: was the fraudster caught? Did it lead
to a change in policy?
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 17
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
CMS should work with the developer community to learn how these data sources could be
successfully adopted to help prioritize implementing data sources.
Visioning
● Support centralized, secure options for personal health data
● Improve awareness of CMS digital solutions
● Invest in interoperability
● Enable developers
a) Today’s data difficulties:
i) Patient perspective: While the Blue Button 2.0 is able to provide surface claims
information, it is limited in the scenarios in which it can do so. Today, Medicare
patients can only access tools that use the API if they have also created a
Medicare.gov account. However, many have not created a Medicare.gov account,
which prevents them from accessing their claims information. This significantly
reduces the number of potential patients who can benefit from these apps.
ii) Vendor perspectives:
1) Developers face challenges in building tools that can reach the whole
Medicare population, due to the limited data sources available from the
Blue Button 2.0 API.
2) The Medicare Advantage data requires a significant amount of
normalization to get it to the same quality as the Part A, B and D claims
data.
b) Suggestions to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API: Developers often aggregate Blue Button
data with data from other sources, such as ADT feeds, or provider systems. The primary
obstacle these developers encounter is mapping and de-duplicating claims. They often ask
CMS for a single, universal patient identifier in all claims data. CMS could adopt this
approach, or otherwise provide resources and pre-built logic to help developers map claims
independently.
c) Non-CMS data: There are many possibilities to explore for non-CMS data:
i) Medicare Supplement Insurance (Medigap) data, coverage that a majority of
Medicare patients have, helps paint a complete health picture for patients that may
be enrolled in multiple programs. This could be especially valuable for rural
residents who may need the freedom to seek care from any provider who accepts
Medicare (especially those that need specialized care or urgent services not
available near them).
ii) Veterans Administration Claims data to help paint a complete health picture for
veterans.
iii) Self-reported data from patients from wearable tech health devices like FitBit or
Apple Watch, making sure to distinguish user captured data from provider
captured information.
iv) X-rays, MRI imaging here, potentially using FHIR Observation,
DiagnosticReport, etc resources.
Shared pain points with other healthcare stakeholders
● Patients and caregivers
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 18
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
○ Only having claims data for Part A, B, and D limits the value of the Blue Button
2.0 API to patients on Medicare Advantage (Part C) data: in 2024 more than half
of all eligible people on Medicare had Medicare Advantage plans.
○ 42% of patients on Parts A and B also have Medigap, so they also have an
incomplete picture of their health.
● Vendors
○ Reduced incentive to build: The limited data sources available in the Blue
Button 2.0 API also limit the potential population their apps might otherwise be
able to reach.
2.1.3 Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me,
other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use
digital identity credentials?
b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were
more widely used?
c. What are the potential downsides?
d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information?
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving
adoption?
f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials?
a. Sign-up challenges. Common challenges with user adoption in account creation,
authentication, and identity proofing include:
i. Technical barriers: Limited access to technology or internet connectivity;
difficulty navigating complex flows.
ii. Biometric mismatch: Inconsistent recognition for patients with aged, dark, or dry
skin — leading to exclusion from biometric methods.
iii. Privacy and safety constraints: Patients and caregivers relying on shared or
temporary devices, or using third-party contact information for safety, may be
blocked by standard MFA practices.
iv. Documentation gaps: Missing key identity documents (e.g., state ID, passport)
or stable mailing address, particularly common among transient or low-income
populations.
v. Data mismatches: CSP vendors cannot match the user's information with their
data sources
vi. Distrust: Mistrust in government or third-party vendors can dissuade
participation
b. Benefits. Widespread use of digital identity credentials would reduce user burden by
enabling access to multiple systems with a single, secure account. This simplifies navigation,
minimizes repeated data entry, and is especially helpful for caregivers and individuals with
cognitive impairments, such as individuals living with Alzheimer’s or dementia.
i. By streamlining sign-on and authentication, digital credentials also eliminate the
need to repeatedly enter the same personal information — saving time, reducing
errors, and improving accessibility. When tied to secure identity proofing and
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 19
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
modern authentication methods, such credentials offer increased protection
against fraud and unauthorized access, giving users and caregivers greater
confidence that their data is safeguarded.
ii. When integrated across CMS systems, including Medicaid, a widely adopted
digital credential can serve as a secure “front door” to the full personal health
ecosystem, enabling personalized services, simplified navigation, and timely
action across programs. This supports CMS’s vision of centralized,
patient-centered health access, where individuals have consistent, reliable control
over their digital health identity.
c. Downsides. There is potential for vendor lock-in with any technology and third-party
service. CMS should carefully evaluate CSPs based on criteria such as user experience,
tech stack compatibility, data validation sources, customer support options, support for
multiple pathways, and service improvement processes.
i. No CSP will fully support all patients and caregivers. CMS should view identity
management holistically and ensure alternative, secure pathways are available for
those who face barriers to account creation, authentication, or identity proofing.
ii. From the patient perspective, potential downsides include inconsistent user
experiences across systems, confusing credentialing processes, or difficulty
regaining access if accounts are locked or devices are lost. These challenges may
disproportionately affect vulnerable populations.
d. Improve access to health information. Using CSPs that are compliant with federal
standards like NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 ensures that CMS provides secure, modern
identity verification that protects user data and enables access across systems. Credential
reuse — especially through widely adopted CSPs like Login.gov or ID.me — reduces
friction for users who interact with multiple agencies such as SSA and the VA, supporting a
more seamless experience.
i. Common digital credentials also enable ADOs to offer centralized, consistent
access to personal health information. When identity is reliably verified, patients
and caregivers can more easily access lab results, immunizations, appointments,
and claims data across CMS systems and affiliated platforms.
ii. Encouraging CSP adoption also lays critical groundwork for FHIR-based
interoperability, allowing identity-linked data to flow securely and seamlessly
across applications. This supports more personalized, data-driven tools, such as
apps that help patients manage care longitudinally, while maintaining strict user
control. Features like opt-in data sharing, as offered by Login.gov, further
empower users to decide how and when their information is shared.
e. Roles for encouraging adoption. CMS should lead by implementing a standardized digital
identity and authentication framework across its programs, reducing fragmentation,
improving user trust, and increasing security oversight. A single credentialing pathway
simplifies access for patients and caregivers while improving CMS’s ability to manage
compliance, fraud prevention, and interoperability. CMS can also act as a convening force
across the government, aligning payers, providers, and developers around shared standards
and inclusive practices to ensure consistency across the health technology ecosystem.
i. App developers and implementers play a key role in designing usable, accessible
authentication flows that meet CMS and federal standards. They must balance
necessary security with minimal user burden, for example, by collecting only
essential information at account creation and supporting passwordless or
low-friction MFA options.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 20
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
ii. All stakeholders should prioritize inclusive design and offer multiple, compliant
pathways for identity proofing and access. This may include accepting a wider
range of identity documents or offering alternative verification methods (e.g.,
in-person, live video, or assisted registration). Driving adoption also requires
understanding the full end-to-end user journey, from account creation through
recovery, and identifying where friction can be reduced without compromising
security.
f. Encourage adoption. CMS can encourage adoption by clearly communicating the value of a
digital identity credential as the single, secure front door to their personal health ecosystem.
With one login, patients and caregivers can access health information, manage benefits, and
navigate multiple CMS programs without juggling separate accounts or credentials.
Visioning
● Support centralized, secure options for personal health data
● Invest in interoperability
● Enable developers
2.2 Providers
2.2.1 Digital Health Apps
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization of
the most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality
measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these
obstacles be mitigated?
● Development and deployment primarily face obstacles surrounding the extract,
transform, load (ETL) process for claims data from many sources that use many formats.
○ For example, ADT feeds in HL7 v2 format, proprietary patient data in custom flat
files, or CMS data in FHIR format.
○ Additionally, provider orgs rarely have in-house expertise and infrastructure
required to support these data sources and run analytics that might be used for
quality measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing. A specialized
3rd party vendor typically must be brought in for enablement – and can become a
gatekeeper if they are unable or unmotivated to prioritize these solutions.
● Effective use. Once the data have been ingested and aggregated, it must be translated into
a standard, human-readable format to be used by physicians. This adds an additional
layer of technological and compliance complexities and expense and may further
discourage adoption of innovative technologies.
○ Compliance concerns for data-sharing can inhibit valuable use cases, such as
supporting the intake of new patients prior to their first visit. HIPAA does not
explicitly define what it considers to be a valid patient-provider relationship to
support “treatment” reasons for the purpose of data-sharing. This creates
challenges for bulk APIs to verify the patient-provider relationship before that
patient has been seen by the provider, which impedes the use of data-sharing for
this purpose.
○ Clinical stakeholders may recognize the broad value of the claims data to support
their decision making, but can struggle to identify, prioritize, and define
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 21
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
requirements for the use cases that will maximize outcomes for their specific
context. This can make it challenging for technologists to offer solutions for
undefined workflows.
○ Additionally, providers expect that requesting third party vendors to build new
workflows, features, or solutions that leverage data sharing integrations will come
at a great cost and they cannot afford the expense of the solution to access the
data.
● Mitigation. These obstacles can be mitigated by marketing CMS digital solutions to
vendors and incentivizing innovation of interoperability solutions and features that
address the needs of providers (see Visioning).
○ Improve awareness and value proposition for existing CMS digital solutions -
market to vendors and focus on how CMS digital solutions address relevant and
felt business needs for providers.
○ Enable developers - support good DevEx through standardization, open-source
tools, community engagement, and improved authentication/authorization
workflows.
○ Invest in interoperability, specifically FHIR - allow aggregation of data sources
and continue to incentivize EMRs and health IT implementors to support bulk
FHIR API integration.
○ Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints - improves capabilities for
data-sharing by reducing costs, standardizing endpoints, improving equal access,
and addressing challenges with attribution.
PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural
areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage
format (for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes,
structured data fields)? Please address all of the following:
a. Current challenges in accessing different data formats.
b. Impact on patient care quality.
c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility.
d. Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable.
e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs.
It is critically important for providers in urban and rural areas to have all their data accessible for
exchange, regardless of format. However, significant disparities exist in interoperability in rural
areas compared to urban ones that should be examined to encourage equitable access to
healthcare:
a. Challenges with data formats. Providers struggle to find software solutions that can “do
it all”. As a result, they may juggle multiple software solutions to get all the data
available to them. This negatively impacts the user experience of providers, contributes to
ineffective workflows, and increases the burden to access all the relevant information at
the point of care.
i. As an example from research, we met a provider who struggled to find an EMR that
supports claims feeds, so they procured a second standalone solution that did to
access that data. They also mentioned a third standalone workflow with another
vendor that they use too. Their ideal would be to have all this information in one
system, but it doesn’t exist.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 22
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
b. Patient care quality. Less data, or less timely data, can have an adverse impact on health
outcomes. Having to access data across different systems and formats increases the
burden on a provider to make informed decisions about patient care with all the
information available to them.
i. For example, if a beneficiary has a chronic condition and is seeing an out of
network specialist, these visits may not be visible to PCPs in claims data feeds, or
may not be visible in time to prevent an adverse health event. This can create a
disparity in quality of care.
c. Technical barriers. Providers do not interact directly with APIs or claims data, but
instead work with third-party implementers who set up technical connections and filter
claims data for them. The barrier is often that not all third-party integrators have this
capability in their existing offering and requesting this capability from the provider side
would be too expensive.
d. Cost or privacy implications. Secure, HIPAA-compliant data storage is prohibitively
expensive, with a high tech barrier to entry.
e. Priority level. A data engineer working with providers once told me “there are the have
and the have-nots in FQHCs, and that gap seems to be increasingly bigger.” This is being
felt very immediately on the ground.
Opportunities to explore these issues in public health/social service integrations (or even
opportunities in medical-legal partnerships), could have powerful outcomes for rural patients.
In Nava’s Visioning, we recommend a number of investments CMS can make that will reduce the
burden to develop interoperable solutions to increase the availability and reduce costs:
● Enable developers - support good DevEx through standardization, open-source tools,
community engagement, and improved authentication/authorization workflows.
● Invest in interoperability, specifically FHIR - allow aggregation of data sources and
continue to incentivize EMRs and health IT implementors to support bulk FHIR API
integration.
● Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints - improves capabilities for data-sharing
by reducing costs, standardizing endpoints, improving equal access, and addressing
challenges with attribution.
2.3 Payers
PA-2. How can CMS encourage payers to accelerate the implementation and utilization of
APIs for patients, providers, and other payers, similar to the Blue Button 2.0 and Data at
the Point of Care APIs released by CMS?
For payers, implementation and utilization of CMS claims data APIs are a low priority in light of
other, more immediately-felt business goals. Blockers to implementation and proposed solutions
are summarized below:
1. Payers are not sure how they might operationalize the data to achieve improved business
and clinical outcomes. The value propositions for CMS’s APIs are not clear or,
alternatively, the advertised use does not align with actual use or with relevant payer
business goals.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 23
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
For example, payers prioritize increasing medication adherence as an internal and
external business goal to receive better scores on CMS quality measures, but medication
adherence is not listed as a potential use for CMS APIs. Recently, Nava released an
updated website for the Medicare A&B Claims Data to Part D Plan Sponsors (AB2D)
API (ab2d.cms.gov) which included use cases, a white paper, and detailed value
propositions informed by human-centered research with payer organizations. Site traffic
and visitor engagement doubled in the first month following release of the updated
website.
a. Visioning: Improve awareness and value proposition of CMS solutions –
address relevant and felt business goals for payers in API marketing material.
Include detailed information on how digital solutions can help payers meet cost
savings measures and improve quality and utilization performance, including
program-specific use cases. Also, include vendors in marketing strategy, as these
organizations are already present at payer organizations and may be a driving
force for adoption.
2. CMS claims data APIs have a high technological barrier to entry. Payers often do not
have existing infrastructure and technical expertise to spin up innovative technological
solutions (for example, FHIR-formatted claims data) in-house. To support these new
solutions, they often have to hire new teams, set up new reporting structures, build new
data pipelines, and/or hire third party vendors. This obstacle, combined with the unclear
value of many technical solutions, introduces high uncertainty and risk on such
investments.
a. Visioning: Invest in interoperability – CMS claims data APIs utilize robust,
interoperable, bulk FHIR data that significantly lowers costs and resources
necessary for operation. Investing in interoperable data at payer organizations
lowers the technological barrier to entry for both current and future solutions.
3. Payers are not provided the resources necessary to feel confident about compliance.
Policy and restrictions are unclear, leading to nervousness around implementation and
utilization.
Leadership and strategic roles at payer organizations typically do not require a depth of
technical or policy expertise. These roles need interpreters to understand legislative data
restrictions, digital solutions, and raw data to operationalize it to align with business
goals. Interpreters are rare, and must be a technical specialist who also has a depth of
healthcare expertise and trust from leadership.
Simultaneously, highly innovative, novel solutions typically require highly innovative,
novel teams, which may not exist at a payer organization. Fragmented responsibilities
among project managers, technical experts, lawyers, policy analysts, specific internal
teams, and compliance specialists may be blockers to adoption.
a. Visioning: Enable developers – Especially for technical leadership roles,
improved documentation, public resources, and onboarding processes that
accommodate pauses in the implementation journey can build trust and
confidence around compliance.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 24
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
PA-4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide provider directory that included
FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials?
Payers benefit from maintaining a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints in the
following ways:
● Improves capabilities around compliant and secure data sharing among payers, providers,
and ACOs, which would reduce costs and enable more data-driven health solutions.
● Creates an equal level of access for all participating entities, reducing disparity between
large payer networks, small provider networks, organizations serving rural populations,
and value-based care entities and ACOs.
● Solves resource-intensive issues with attribution and billing. Attribution data may not be
available from various sources, leading to challenges around transparency and
interpreting the patient health journey and targeted coordination of benefits across
multiple payers (e.g. dual eligibility).
○ Unclear attribution can also cause uncertainty around compliance, as some data
may not be applied to some uses or shared with some teams at a payer
organization.
● Increases visibility and, we can infer, also increases referrals to relevant providers and
ACOs within a health system.
● Provides accurate information on the value of the physician/provider and offers more
accurate comparative services to help patients identify which doctors achieve better
outcomes over time.
Read more in Visioning: Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints.
Payers should be responsible for maintaining and bearing the cost of this system. Payers should
also be responsible for storing and maintaining the complete historical health data for the patient
populations they are responsible for. It is key that these two services should be managed in the
same systems so that claims data and provider data remains in sync. This also offers increased
value to payers:
● Encourages interoperability of healthcare claims data, which cuts costs and allows data
sources to be aggregated, creating a more holistic view of patient health history. In turn,
all stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem can take advantage of a more data-driven
approach to provide a higher quality of care and improved health outcomes. For example,
payers and providers can share long-term health data to understand and chart the value of
a health intervention over time
Read more in Visioning: Invest in interoperability– specifically FHIR
Disclaimers:
● Patients may be discouraged to switch payers if one payer has their full health history.
Payers should be required and incentivized to share data if a patient under their coverage
changes payers.
○ Costs associated with transferring the data would also incentivize payers to
provide high quality care and interoperable data.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 25
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
2.4 Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
2.4.1 Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
and caregivers?
Build trust with developers. In the next 2 years, CMS can best stimulate developer interest by
building trust. CMS APIs and resultant digital health products fill many gaps, but they are still in
their infancy. Additionally, because of the sensitive, private, and heavily-regulated nature of
health data, developers are slow to build digital solutions that may seem untested or may be
unpredictable in their existing ecosystems. To increase adoption and engagement from
developers, CMS can build up the reliability, robustness, ease-of-use, and conformance of these
solutions.
Data improvements. Uncovering data needs from the community around new data sources and
data quality, and prioritizing based on that feedback for improvements to the bulk APIs and the
Blue Button 2.0 API to make them more useful is a great way to encourage engagement with the
data.
Elevate and evangelize innovative application models. Look for new applications with
production access (or that could potentially get production access) that demonstrate innovative
use cases, have robust FHIR implementations, and high user engagement to exemplify for the
interoperability community. This can help inspire app developers and expand usage of CMS
data. For gaps in the market, CMS should consider building its own application to help seed the
environment.
Model optimal developer experience: For its APIs, CMS should model DevEx best practices,
by learning about developer needs and iteratively experimenting. This could include making it
easier to access the APIs and using the work already done by the EDI Gateway under MPSM
DMOD. A specific opportunity for exploration in this area is learning about developer’s AI
needs, and how to support APIs and developer tools that are natively friendly to AI agents that
may be acting on behalf of people/beneficiaries/third parties.
In Nava’s Visioning, we propose several specific and targeted solutions to build trust:
● Enable developers
○ Provide detailed documentation resources and support for developers who are not
familiar with FHIR data, leaning on familiar tools such as Github and open-souce
contributions.
○ Simplify authorization and credentialing to access production data. This step can
be lengthy and complicated, prohibiting developers from getting the data they
need to build proof-of-concept demos. While developers may be able to use
synthetic data to build demos, technology leaders at these organizations have
expressed that they do not trust that synthetic data will match production data
until they have seen it first hand. They do not want to set expectations based on
non-production data.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 26
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
○ Design solutions with developers in mind, following best practices and principles
of developer experience design.
● Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
○ Data provided by CMS must be high-quality and predictable to be useful. Data
should be conformant with FHIR specifications.
○ Organizations do not have transparency into CMS data warehouses, data
pipelines, and clinician timelines, which may affect the time at which beneficiary
data becomes available. This complex process is not well understood and may not
be adequately explained in documentation, which causes a misalignment of
expectations and perceived lag.
○ Emphasize open-source solutions and associated repositories, encouraging shared
growth and responsibility.
● Invest in interoperability
○ Aggregating, mapping, storing, and maintaining claims data is one of, if not the
single most challenging, resource-intensive, and blocking step in implementation
workflows. Interoperability significantly lowers the high technological barrier to
entry by minimizing this step, enabling developers to effectively and reliably use
the data.
● Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints
○ Attribution goes hand-in-hand with investment in interoperability. A national
directory of provider endpoints enables developers to identify and fill gaps in the
data, in turn making it more complete and more interoperable. Developers have
the most to gain from pairing these solutions.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest--
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue
Button 2.0 API?
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program
policies to unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
a. Valuable data to CMS APIs. Users have requested additional data about patient IDs,
admitting facilities, Part C data, provider details/NPIs/participation information, and data
points that might inform programs to prevent opioid over-utilization (these are currently
filtered out by SAMHSA). However, most demand has come from users requesting real-time,
reliable, high-quality, interoperable data.
● Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
Specific to value-based care models, ACOs also have an increased need for provider
information, which allows them to confirm details and data sharing security when conducting
care coordination with out-of-ACO-network providers.
● Visioning: Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints – Improves capabilities around
compliant and secure data sharing among payers, providers, and ACOs, which would
reduce costs and enable more data-driven health solutions
b. Most valuable data via Blue Button 2.0. We have documented cases of users
supplementing Blue Button data with data from ADT
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 27
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
feeds, DPC, CCLF, BCDA, and more. They are seeking timely data on users who have not
opted-in to Blue Button, and more detailed diagnosis and procedural data. Specifically, health
organizations can use the BCDA and DPC Claims Data APIs provided by CMS in tandem
with the patient information in Blue Button 2.0 to create a thorough, detailed, and holistic
health history profile. Using these 3 existing APIs in conjunction is a powerful, lightweight
immediate-term solution to the larger challenge of making health data available to all
stakeholders in the healthcare system.
● Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
c. Obstacles:
Leadership and strategic roles at payer organizations typically do not require a depth of technical
expertise. These roles need interpreters to understand digital solutions and raw data to
operationalize it to align with business goals. Interpreters are rare, and must be a technical
specialist who also has a depth of healthcare expertise and trust from leadership.
● Visioning: Improve awareness and value proposition of CMS digital solutions
Highly innovative, novel solutions typically require highly innovative, novel teams, which may
not exist at a payer or provider network or organization. Fragmented responsibilities among
project managers, technical experts, lawyers, policy analysts, specific internal teams, and
compliance specialists may be blockers to adoption.
● Visioning: Enable developers – Design solutions with developer evangelists in mind,
following best practices and principles of developer experience design.
Data storage and infrastructure is expensive, has high privacy and security requirements, and is
challenging to spin up and separate into necessary pools. Additionally, claims data sources vary
widely in a range of quality, detail, and update frequency. Aggregating and mapping these claims
data is one of, if not the single most challenging, resource-intensive, and blocking step in
implementation workflows.
● Visioning: Invest in interoperability – interoperable data significantly lowers the high
technological barrier to entry, complex infrastructure, and associated costs
Organizations have minimal visibility into data pipelines and timelines. They are unclear on
when updates might become available, and have low trust in newer APIs and data sources, which
may not have historically been predictable. Since, the most impactful use cases for these data
depend on timelines and accuracy, these aspects must be improved before organizations can
adopt with confidence.
● Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
1. Other innovation incentives:
○ Release DPC (instead of being a trial) and have it be on R4
○ Stricter conformance to existing Bulk FHIR and SMART auth standards.
○ Supplement Bulk Data workflows with Subscription / Notifications (see VB-3)
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 28
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
2.4.2 Technical Standards and Certification
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available
APIs over proprietary APIs?
Empower developers and build trust with technical users by providing standardized, detailed
documentation resources, including pre-built logic and/or capabilities for mapping claims data,
representative synthetic/sample data, and quickstart guides. Models for this include potential
collaboration with CMS Digital Service’s work with the Open Source community and their Open
Source Program Office.
● Visioning: Enable developers
Address relevant and felt business goals for payers, ACOs, and provider organizations.
Include detailed information on how digital solutions can help payers meet cost savings
measures and improve quality and utilization performance. Also include detailed use cases that
explain how digital solutions might be operationalized within specific programs. (For example,
the AB2D API can be used to supplement data for Medication Therapy Management (MTM)
programs or detection of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse)
● Visioning: Improve awareness and value proposition of existing CMS digital solutions
Leverage CMS’s existing bulk FHIR claims data. CMS claims data is more detailed and
timely than many other sources, including proprietary sources. By building out this particular
feature of the data, CMS can encourage adoption for use cases across the board, including timely
clinical interventions, real-time monitoring on performance and utilization, and predictive risk
modelling (especially for AI models).
● Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
Interoperable claims data significantly lowers the high technological barrier to entry and
associated costs around aggregating and mapping claims data in different formats. Data types
vary widely in a range of quality, detail, and update frequency. Aggregating, mapping, storing,
and maintaining these claims data is one of, if not the single most challenging,
resource-intensive, and blocking step in implementation workflows.
● Visioning: Invest in interoperability
Enable mature vendors and technological organizations with native AI-friendly data that is also
compatible with edge computing, quantum computing, digital twin/simulated modeling
technology and others.
● Visioning: Explore cutting-edge technologies
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improves access to health information for
patients, providers, and payers by:
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 29
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
● Improving capabilities around compliant and secure data sharing among payers,
providers, and ACOs, which would reduce costs and enable more data-driven health
solutions.
● Forwarding the organic development of a universal shared language, format, and
understanding of claims data.
● Creating an equal level of access for all participating entities, reducing disparity between
large payer networks, small provider networks, organizations serving rural populations,
and value-based care entities and ACOs.
● Solving resource-intensive issues with attribution and billing. Attribution data may not be
available from various sources, leading to challenges around transparency and
interpreting the patient health journey and targeted coordination of benefits across
multiple payers (e.g. dual eligibility).
○ Unclear attribution can also cause uncertainty around compliance, as some data
may not be applied to some uses or shared with some teams at a
payer/provider/ACO organization.
● Increasing visibility and, we can infer, also increasing referrals to relevant providers and
ACOs within a health system.
This directory should include necessary info to reduce manual outreach and automate data
sharing as much as possible while also remaining private and secure. Some key data elements to
include would be universal claims identifiers, NPIs, contact information, and participation
information about health facilities and providers.
Payers should be responsible for maintaining and bearing the cost of this system, as they are best
positioned to also be responsible for maintaining and storing the complete historical health data
for the patient populations they are responsible for. It is key that these two data services be
managed in the same systems so that claims data and provider data remains in sync.
Read more in Visioning: Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints
2.4.3 Data Exchange
TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing
access to the entirety of a patient’s electronic health information (EHI)?
a. What are the primary obstacles to this?
b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI, especially given more
flexible data processing capabilities today?
APIs can provide access to the entirety of a patient’s EHI by investing in interoperability,
enabling patient control/sharing of their healthcare data, enabling developers, and building trust
in the data.
a. Obsctacles
i. Existing data is not interoperable, and is challenging to collect, store, aggregate, and
maintain.
1. Visioning: Invest in interoperability; Empower patients with their
healthcare data
ii. Insufficient enablement for developers
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 30
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
1. Visioning: Enable Developers
iii. CMS data sources and timelines lack transparency, causing distrust
1. Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
b. Tradeoffs
i. USCDI is standards-based, widely-supported, well-tested, and supports the
most-common use cases and workflows. However, it does not contain comprehensive
patient data, so there could be a gap in information, which may lead to incorrect or
misinformed clinical decisions.
ii. Full EHI contains every data point from the EHR, but is not standard across providers.
While it is beneficial to have comprehensive data, there is not a common agreement
about what each data point means or represents. This invites opportunity for clinical
decisions to be made based on an incorrect assumption or interpretation of a data
point.
2.5 Value-Based Care Organizations
2.5.1 Digital Health Adoption
VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations
(ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital
health management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with
their patients? What are the current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption
for patients in ACOs?
Incentives. ACOs are motivated by cost savings, decreased financial risk, and improved health
outcomes. Standardized quality measures and reporting requirements should correlate with these
motivations (which, in large part, they already do) to incentive use and effectiveness.
Visioning: Standardize required reporting measures for ACOs
Obstacles to adoption:
● Highly technical. Products are often highly-technical, but ACOs often must prioritize
more immediate patient needs in favor of high-investment technological infrastructure.
○ Visioning: Invest in interoperability – lowers high technological barrier to entry
● Lack of implementation guidance. Adoption of new technologies is expensive and ROI
is not always clear. Guidance on how to adopt new products is complicated and requires a
heavy administrative burden. Meanwhile, many ACOs are struggling to remain even
minimally financially viable.
○ Additionally, care models typically change every 3-5 years and scoring measures
may change even more often. This makes the model more costly and investment
less appealing.
○ Visioning: Improve awareness and value proposition of CMS digital solutions –
market to ACO business needs and publish supportive enablement resources
● Trust. Digital care products handle sensitive data and take up valuable resources to adopt
and implement. Many ACOs manage patient health histories on spreadsheets because it is
the only cost-effective, trustworthy system available.
○ Change requires a cultural shift and tolerance for risk, especially from leadership.
○ Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 31
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
● Timely data is a key success factor for VBC organizations, which rely on such data for
timely clinical interventions, real-time monitoring and reporting, and predictive risk
modelling. ACOs are utilizing the Beneficiary Claims Data API (BCDA) for access to
more timely data, which has become an invaluable tool. Further development to expand
resources and support for BCDA would help users meet these needs.
○ Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
● Regular disruption. New products disrupt current provider workflows, slowing
operations and potentially causing negative effects on patient health.
○ Visioning: Enable Developers - minimize disruption for providers and patients by
providing developer resources for efficient, scalable implementation
● Regulatory and policy fragmentation: The lack of a coherent federal framework for
digital identity results in a patchwork of state regulations, complicating ACOs’ efforts to
implement standardized digital identity solutions across different regions and
populations.
○ Visioning: Improve awareness and value proposition of CMS digital solutions
VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population
health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement, and
patient engagement be better integrated into APM requirements?
Current APM requirements:
1. Must use certified EHR technologies
a. Opportunity. EHRs data can be made interinteroperable for ingestion by ML and
AI models, which can be used to create more accurate predicative risk models,
run more sophisticated analytics, and automate reporting. (See ClosedLoop)
b. Improve care coordination by improving data interoperability and data sharing
within EHRs and similar systems. This is more achievable with a national
directory of FHIR endpoints
2. Payments are based on quality measures
a. Quality measures can be standardized for usability
b. A national directory of FHIR endpoints can relieve issues related to attribution
and care coordination outside of ACO networks, which can negatively affect
quality scores
c. Provide reliable, consistent, usable healthcare claims data to make quality
measures easier to calculate. ACOs often hire a vendor to manage their data
3. Assume shared financial risk
a. Use sophisticated AI models for more advanced risk stratification
Visioning
● Invest in interoperability
● Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints
● Standardize required reporting measures for ACOs
● Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event
notification, data extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement,
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 32
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
access to claims data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device
interoperability, or other patient empowerment tools.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based
care arrangements?
Value-based care success requires several technical IT capabilities to enable true care
coordination, effective performance measurement, and financial management. Advanced
analytics capabilities, patient engagement, sophisticated risk models, patient interfaces, and
security and privacy infrastructure for data exchanges are some examples of health IT critical
capabilities. Interoperability standards and capabilities are essential for advanced technical,
regulatory and operational capabilities, critical for enabling innovations not yet fully explored.
For example, FHIR streaming and event-driven notifications are still considered emerging
standards in the industry. Maturing these can significantly enhance the real-time and scalable
flow of healthcare data, especially in support of value-based care, care coordination, unlocking a
number of digital health innovations previously discussed in some of our responses. The Patient
Data Feed (https://github.com/argonautproject/us-core-patient-data-feed/blob/main/spec.md)
proposes a solution for FHIR Subscription Notifications related to DiagnosticReport,
DocumentReference, Encounter, and Observation. FHIR streaming and event-driven
notifications can close care coordination gaps and streamline quality reporting automation.
● Visioning: Invest in interoperability, Explore cutting-edge technologies
Integrating FHIR standards and blockchain technology could offer a powerful approach to
revolutionize healthcare coordination, providing enhanced security and transparency, protecting
data and building trust, streamlining time-consuming processes and workflows involved in
Health Information Exchange, quality management, and value based care payments and
reconciliations. Patient consent management and other use cases could also be explored (e.g.
https://research.ibm.com/publications/blockchain-based-intelligent-data-management-for-healthc
are-bid4health?mhsrc=ibmsearch_a&mhq=blockchain%20healthcare;
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10701638/#B36 ).
● Visioning: Explore cutting-edge technologies, Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely
data
2.5.2 Technical Standards
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing
value-based care programs?
● The most significant interoperability issue is aggregating, mapping, and de-duplicating
claims data. De-duplication logic is not clear and manual transformations are cost and
resource-intensive.
○ Visioning: Invest in interoperability
● Structure among data sources is not consistent. For example, there may not be
placeholders for variable fields, indicators for visit types, or compatibility to enable
flattening the data.
○ Visioning: Invest in interoperability
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 33
Request for Information.

Nava PBC
June 16, 2025
● Insufficient developer resources are available to enable independent development and
troubleshooting
○ Visioning: Enable developers
● FHIR-formatted data is not always compliant with set standards
○ Visioning: Provide transparent, trustworthy, timely data
● Download sizes are too large or parameters to reduce download size are not clear. This
inhibits users who do not have the internal infrastructure to securely support and
manipulate large amounts of private data.
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access
to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would
be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its effectiveness?
A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints:
● Improves capabilities around compliant and secure data sharing among payers, providers,
and ACOs, which would reduce costs and enable more data-driven health solutions.
● Creates an equal level of access for all participating entities, reducing disparity between
large payer networks, small provider networks, organizations serving rural populations,
and value-based care entities and ACOs.
● Solves resource-intensive issues with attribution and billing. Attribution data may not be
available from various sources, leading to challenges around transparency and
interpreting the patient health journey and targeted coordination of benefits across
multiple payers (e.g. dual eligibility).
○ Unclear attribution can also cause uncertainty around compliance, as some data
may not be applied to some uses or shared with some teams at a payer
organization.
● Increases visibility and, we can infer, also increases referrals to relevant providers and
ACOs within a health system.
One of the first and foremost concerns at ACOs is secure, private care coordination among
providers. Currently, the data available from CMS does not offer a secure route to conduct this
task without compliance risks, primarily because ACOs cannot verify the NPIs for providers
outside of the ACO network and therefore cannot share claims data or coordinate care.
In a recent user interview, a Senior VP at a VBC vendor organization expressed sadness about
patients who cannot be assigned to a provider. Even if the VBC has urgent health information to
share, they cannot due to a lack of verified endpoints, and patients suffer. Quote: “We’re
assigning them to nobody, and they’re kind of like sitting in a dark hole.” This is a shared and
pervasive issue across SSP and REACH ACOs.
Visioning
● Build a national directory of FHIR endpoints
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this 34
Request for Information.