February 23, 2026
Steven Posnack
Assistant Secretary of Technology Policy
National Coordinator for Health IT
Department of Health and Human Services
7033A, 330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: Response to the AI in Clinical Care Request for Information
Assistant Secretary of Technology Policy Posnack,
Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback on how HHS can encourage flexible, efficient, and
clinically appropriate artificial intelligence (AI) adoption in care delivery. The agency’s tech-enabled care
agenda and consumer empowerment initiatives lend themselves readily to the already-emerging AI-
enabled care delivery methods. As virtual care practitioners and advocates, the Alliance for Connected
Care is pleased to provide our input on how HHS can drive the public and private sector toward a health
care system that rewards outcomes, patient-centered care, and high-value services.
The Alliance for Connected Care (“The Alliance”) is dedicated to improving access to care through the
reduction of policy, legal, and regulatory barriers to the adoption of connected care capabilities, including
telemedicine, remote patient monitoring (RPM), and AI-enabled care. Our members are leading health
care and technology organizations from across the spectrum, representing health systems, health payers,
technology innovators, and patient and provider groups, including many types of clinician specialty and
patient advocacy groups who wish to better utilize opportunities enabled by virtual care.
As has long been true in health care, patients consistently seek easier navigation, timely and continuous
support between visits, and simpler payment structures. Virtual care has made many strides in increasing
access to services and empowering clinicians to create the best available care; however, the next
generation of care is now upon us. Tens of millions of Americans have already turned to non-medical AI
chatbots to help them diagnose conditions, determine treatment plans, evaluate medication conflicts and
other functions. The fact that patients are seeking this support outside of the medical community
underscores a policy imperative. Our mission should be to further empower health care professionals and
the capabilities they employ to meet the needs of their patients.
Once we sort out the myriad of regulatory and payment issues, the ideal world is one in which a
coordinated care team, consisting of both human and agentic AI capabilities, is able to provide a patient
with both the expertise they require and the convenience of these consumer tools. Patients should have
access to asynchronous care, aided by agentic AI and connected to their primary medical record, without
worrying whether their data is secure or if they can trust the platform.
1

Through the below points, the Alliance argues that AI-enabled care is an evolution of existing tech-enabled
care delivery and should be integrated into existing medical services. Federal policy should fully unlock
digital health while remaining technology-neutral, modality-agnostic, and focused on clinical
accountability and outcomes. Payment should reward value delivered to patients and drive increased
efficacy and data-driven coordination across the patient’s clinical care team.
The Alliance recommends that HHS use its authority and work with Congress and states to advance the
following objectives:
• Strengthen virtual care foundations for AI-enabled care.
Recognize AI-enabled care as a natural evolution of connected care, not a new kind of care
o
in need of unique policy or regulatory solutions.
Clear the decks on longstanding barriers to telehealth and remote patient monitoring that
o
will be equally burdensome to the expansion of AI-enabled care.
Avoid repeating the policymaking mistakes made in other digital health areas, where
o
narrow allowances later hampered patient access.
• Allow the integration of AI-enabled care into existing medical services, when clinically
appropriate
Pursue regulatory and reimbursement changes that allow for modality-agnostic care
o
delivery to facilitate the expansion of AI-enabled care.
Circumvent barriers like time-based reimbursement to the expansion of AI-enabled care.
o
Further grow AI-enabled care delivery in models based on outcomes, where these
o
changes can be made most easily.
Enable innovative “regulatory sandboxes” that create AI regulatory relief pathways that
o
allow for temporary exemptions from regulation, subject to rigorous due diligence, safety
constraints, and narrowly scoped use cases at the state and federal level.
STRENGTHEN VIRTUAL CARE FOUNDATIONS FOR AI-ENABLED CARE
AI-enabled care represents the natural next step in the evolution of connected and virtual care.
Just as telehealth expands access by expanding availability and bringing clinicians closer to patients
regardless of geography, agentic AI continues that progress by enhancing clinical capacity, enabling
continuous engagement between visits, and further customizing treatment plans and workflows around
patient needs. Agentic AI can strengthen patient-centered services, improve outcomes, and increase
system efficiency without disrupting the foundational principles of medical practice.
RPM improved care by making ongoing monitoring and clinical support available to patients when and
where they were needed. AI-enabled care builds on this foundation, leveraging timely and actionable
health information, strengthening clinical decision-making, supporting even more continuous engagement
between visits, and enabling more meaningful asynchronous care capabilities. These capabilities represent
2

tangible improvements that patients value and that will measurably enhance outcomes without changing
the underlying intent of the service.
It is our overarching position that federal policy should approach agentic AI capabilities not as a standalone
treatment tool, but as an extension and modernization of modern digital health services. The majority of
these patient-facing capabilities fall within the definitions of treatment already covered as medical services
and should be viewed as the evolution of that care. To the extent that separate policy is required, AI-
enabled care should be evaluated, regulated, and reimbursed based on the quality of care delivered and
the health outcomes achieved. By aligning oversight and payment frameworks with this evolution, HHS
can foster innovation while preserving trust, accountability, and access to high-quality care.
We also recommend that existing regulatory approaches at both the state and federal level be leveraged
wherever possible. Policymakers should only act where genuine gaps exist, rather than taking steps that
could either 1) create duplicative requirements on the same care or 2) create unnecessary parallel
regulatory structures that dramatically complicate coverage and treatment using these AI-enabled
capabilities.
Clear the decks on longstanding restrictions on telehealth and RPM that will be equally burdensome to
the expansion of AI-enabled care.
The Alliance has led on issues related to connected care regulation and reimbursement for many years.
Throughout that period, we have seen short-sighted regulatory and reimbursement approaches allow for
the care delivery model of the moment, without considering the continuing evolution of that care. Nearly
all of the policy challenges faced in the expansion of telehealth and RPM apply to the further
transformation of care with the addition of agentic AI capabilities.
Despite rapid technological advancement, existing regulatory structures continue to pose significant
barriers to responsible AI integration. HHS should eliminate outdated telehealth-era restrictions such as
rigid interaction rules and geographic limitations, ensuring regulatory frameworks reflect that clinical value
is determined by outcomes, not modality. Outdated interaction and location-based care delivery
requirements, designed for a pre-digital health environment, limit clinicians’ ability to leverage AI-enabled
tools in remote and distributed care settings. These barriers also impede models that rely on continuous
monitoring, asynchronous communication, and/or digitally supported decision-making.
With this in mind, we call on policymakers to seek broad solutions to care delivery that remove traditional
payment and access barriers for all connected care capabilities, including telehealth, RPM, and agentic AI
capabilities. We call on HHS to lead efforts (along with Congress/states) to:
• End short-term extension-to-extension policymaking that hampers the ability of innovators to
invest in tech-enabled care for seniors. Examples include recent lapses of Medicare telehealth and
hospital at home, and near lapses of telehealth prescribing allowances. The ongoing and very real
risk to these foundational elements of a modern health care system undermines the promise of
3

healthcare transformation and stifles innovation and expansion (including investments in AI-
enabled care).
• Eliminate Medicare geographic and originating site limitations, allowing patients to communicate
remotely with care, regardless of location. Not only do these restrictions limit telehealth, but this
outdated regulatory structure is entirely unsuited for a future in which on-demand agentic support
is a crucial part of the care delivery ecosystem.
• Remove archaic distant site practitioner-type limitations on connected care. Any provider who can
deliver clinically appropriate care should be able to do so. This language can be modernized to
focus on clinical appropriateness, with the understanding that care may not always include a
human practitioner.
• Permanently remove the concept of an in-person visit as a “guardrail” on connected care access.
These restrictions serve to limit access to care, particularly for those with transportation, mobility,
frailty, or stigma-related barriers. This concept is fundamentally incompatible with the promise of
AI-enabled care, which will help to resolve in-person access constraints.
• Address duplicative state licensing regulations that limit health care competition and stifle care
delivery innovation. While there is robust debate currently about state-based AI regulation,
barriers to the ability to practice across state lines remain a significant drag on the opportunity to
scale national care-delivery networks that leverage both human and agentic capabilities.
• Modernize health plan network adequacy requirements to reflect real-world access measures,
such as beneficiary access and satisfaction, rather than outdated time and distance standards. The
realization of outcome-based measurements for network adequacy is equally important for a
world in which a portion of patient care is provided by agentic AI capabilities.
Avoid repeating the policymaking mistakes made in other digital health areas, where specific allowances
later hampered patient access.
Our experience with telehealth, through which policymakers created statutory and regulatory
permissibility designed for one moment, without anticipation of the evolution of that care should be a
lesson for policymaking in the age of AI. Policymaking barriers, such as Congressional Budget Office
scoring, have caused major telehealth wins to age poorly and ultimately become major impediments to
patient access. Federal policymakers should avoid repeating this cycle by regulating AI to the point of
stagnation or focusing primarily on guardrails when incentive-aligned policy frameworks more effectively
promote safe, scalable innovation. These guardrails (such as location requirements for telehealth)
ultimately become barriers to care long after the concern they were designed to address has passed.
We believe HHS should avoid tool-specific regulatory regimes that delay deployment of clinically effective
AI-enabled services. Lessons from telehealth demonstrate that technology-specific rules create
fragmentation, limit scalability, and distort care delivery. HHS should focus on payment for services and
outcomes, with flexibility for agentic AI capabilities to be deployed as clinically proven and validated over
time. A risk-based, technology-neutral approach focused on clinical function, safety, and outcomes will
better support responsible innovation.
4

Similarly, workforce regulations should be modernized to enable clinicians to safely extend their reach
using agentic AI tools. HHS can support team-based, technology-supported care while preserving oversight
and accountability. As a result, providers would feel empowered to use the best tools available to provide
the highest quality care possible, without being concerned about jumping through hoops required for the
billing of that service.
ALLOW THE INTEGRATION OF AI-ENABLED CARE INTO EXISTING MEDICAL SERVICES, WHEN CLINICALLY
APPROPRIATE
Pursue regulatory and reimbursement changes that allow for modality-agnostic care delivery to
facilitate the expansion of AI-enabled care.
Agentic AI has the potential to significantly expand clinical capacity and improve care delivery. This promise
will only be realized at scale if HHS adopts regulatory and reimbursement changes that allow for modality-
agnostic care delivery, evaluated on outcomes. AI-enabled clinical services should not be evaluated and
reimbursed based on the specific tools, algorithms, or modalities used to deliver those services. In the
near-term, payers should take steps toward the reimbursement of clinicians for clinically meaningful
outputs delivered through validated, guideline-based workflows—whether those workflows are executed
by human team members or AI-enabled agents. Federal policies that are organized around care delivery
and outcomes, not the specific technologies used to achieve them will create the necessary flexibility for
future evolution as these capabilities mature.
AI-enabled care holds promise for expanding patient access to timely, continuous, and clinically
meaningful services, especially through RPM, chronic disease management, and patient engagement.
These capabilities enable earlier intervention, reduce avoidable hospitalizations, and lower total cost of
care while ensuring patients—particularly those in rural, underserved, mobility-limited, or clinician-
shortage settings—can receive appropriate care without relying solely on in-person encounters. Virtual
behavioral health and primary care further illustrate agentic AI’s clinician-extending potential, supporting
on-demand asynchronous care and regular patient engagements.
AI-enabled virtual and hybrid care should be integrated into existing delivery and payment systems, rather
than siloed into technology-specific reimbursement structures. This integration will promote continuity,
efficiency, and equitable access to virtual care. Importantly, by retaining the same reimbursement
structures for services, with flexibility for modality, we empower clinicians and patients to fully control the
choice for how care is delivered rather than creating payment incentives for one modality over another.
Circumvent barriers like time-based reimbursement to the expansion of AI-enabled care.
One of the most significant reimbursement barriers to AI-enabled clinical care is the continued reliance on
time-based payment. Rewarding clinician minutes rather than outcomes, efficiency, or productivity gains
discourages adoption of models that extend clinician capacity and improve care delivery.
CMS’s recent Advanced Primary Care Management (APCM) codes signal movement away from rigid time
tracking; these demonstrate a pathway that could continue to be expanded to better accommodate AI-
5

enabled workflows. Unfortunately, current asynchronous billing codes—including Chronic Care
Management (CCM), Principal Care Management (PCM), Remote Therapeutic Monitoring (RTM), RPM,
and Online Digital Evaluation and Management (Digital E/M)—remain heavily tied to time-based inputs.
This structure paradoxically penalizes clinicians who deploy AI tools that improve efficiency.
Payment policy should not penalize AI-driven efficiency, such as faster diagnoses, fewer unnecessary visits,
or reduced clinician time per episode, when outcomes improve. HHS must work with stakeholders to
continue progress in efforts to move beyond time-based reimbursement to reward efficient, outcome-
driven services, allowing AI-enabled care to evolve naturally within the market. A practical near-term
policy option, included in a recent NEJM Catalyst article, proposed that HHS consider a dual billing
pathway similar to synchronous Evaluation and Management services—permitting reimbursement based
on medical decision-making (MDM) complexity rather than time alone. This modification would allow
clinicians to retain accountability for care delivered under their supervision while capturing the clinical
value, liability, and oversight associated with AI-enabled workflows.
Agentic AI meaningfully expands clinical capacity (far beyond the requisite minutes that a clinician might
otherwise bill), enabling proactive outreach, behavioral coaching, medication adherence support, and
early intervention at a scale not possible under traditional time-bound models. Payment frameworks
should recognize this expanded capacity as an opportunity to reduce downstream utilization and total cost
of care.
Further grow AI-enabled care delivery in models based on outcomes, where these changes can be made
most easily.
Continued transition toward outcomes-based, value-aligned payment is essential for the expansion of care
with flexibility for AI-enabled capabilities. Evaluation and payment for these services must be tied to
clinical outcomes, rather than process-driven payments and measures in order to unlock the capabilities
of AI-enabled care. Greater opportunities to align payment incentives around outcomes, and with
appropriate flexibility, will allow the market to determine the most effective methods of delivery including
AI-enabled capabilities as a natural evolution of care.
As a first step, HHS should establish reimbursement pathways for AI-enabled care within existing covered
service lines. These services include remote, asynchronous, and longitudinal models where there are clear,
low-hanging opportunities for AI to augment existing services, such as RPM which could more clearly
depend on continuous, technology-supported engagement rather than discrete care management
encounters.
HHS can lay the foundation for linking payment more directly to long-term health outcomes while
preserving near-term compatibility with existing billing infrastructure by treating high-value clinical
outputs as measurable and reimbursable units of care. Paying for validated outputs of care also creates a
pathway toward broader outcome-based reimbursement. AI-enabled workflows can document patient
follow-through on care plans, such as completion of ordered diagnostics, medication initiation, adherence,
and symptom improvement. These measurable clinical actions serve as proximal indicators of improved
6

health outcomes and can be standardized, audited, and ultimately tied to value-based payment
arrangements when a fully outcome-based model is not possible.
As CMS has recently engaged in through the ACCESS model, federal demonstrations through CMMI offer
another important opportunity to scale access-expanding AI-enabled care models, align payment with
measurable outcomes, and support regulatory sandboxes that enable innovation with appropriate risk-
based safeguards. Through these combined actions, HHS can take steps to expand options for AI-enabled
care as an integrated extension of modern care delivery thus expanding access and strengthening the
workforce.
Enable innovative “regulatory sandboxes” that allow for temporary exemptions from regulation, subject
to rigorous due diligence, safety constraints, and narrowly scoped use cases.
HHS should more broadly seek to encourage experimentation with AI-enabled care, while continuing to
ensure risk-based oversight as needed. This should include partnerships with states to test novel AI
capabilities within their regulatory jurisdictions.
As mentioned above, there is significant opportunity to continue to build on CMMI payment model
exploration to create regulatory flexibility in the testing of AI services at scale in real-time. Flexibility on
both the existing virtual care restrictions mentioned previously as well as additional AI-specific flexibilities
should accompany outcome-based payment models testing the ability of AI-enabled care.
There is robust interest in AI-focused activity at the state level. It may be possible to divert some of that
energy into productive testing and evaluation of AI-enabled health care services through state or regional
sandboxes in which AI-enabled health care is tested within a regionally constrained, and narrowly scoped
situation with risk-based oversight.
Regulatory flexibility should be paired with structural safeguards that preserve program integrity. AI-
enabled clinical workflows can be configured to follow evidence-based pathways, blocking inappropriate
actions and ensuring all interventions are clinically justified. Additionally, AI-enabled systems will offer
enhanced auditability compared to traditional models as each action can be logged, traceable, and
evaluated against predefined criteria. HHS should incorporate auditability and pathway-based safeguards
into sandbox and demonstration models, enabling innovation while strengthening fraud prevention and
oversight.
INITIAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR AI-ENABLED CARE
The Alliance believes that there are specific areas in digital health that are most ripe for AI-enabled care
innovation. This evolution builds directly on telehealth’s success in bringing clinicians closer to patients
and reflects what individuals increasingly expect from a modern, responsive health system. These
opportunities include –
• Expand chronic disease management support between visits, including medication adherence,
symptom tracking, and behavioral coaching. Asynchronous care strengthened by agentic AI
7

represents a critical access pathway, enabling patients to receive guidance, monitoring, and timely
clinical intervention between traditional encounters. This should include options to move beyond
time-based reimbursement – including MDM or outcome-based reimbursement.
RPM, as previously noted, is a particularly strong opportunity as the combination of
o
agentic AI and RPM strengthens patient engagement and self-management through
personalized feedback, education, and adherence support without increasing workforce
strain. HHS should work to remove outdated payment and program design barriers that
discourage the appropriate use of automation and AI to deliver higher-value care.
• Remove barriers to agentic AI-enabled triage, intake, screening, and follow-up, including
autonomous or semi-autonomous patient interactions that are part of a reimbursable interaction.
While barrier removal is the first step, clinical efficacy of specific interventions will still need to be
evaluated and risk related to this care will need to be evaluated.
While we have largely discouraged “AI codes” one specific opportunity is the reimagining
o
of virtual check-ins as a payment pathway for agentic AI. These Medicare codes are a
classic example of telehealth payment restrictions making an otherwise promising service
unworkable, all for a relatively low-value code. However, the objective for this care—in
which a patient is contacted between other services to manage their condition—is an
ideal structure for agentic AI.
• Convene experts and stakeholders to reimagine what core virtual interactions, including remote
supervision and interprofessional consultations should look like in a world where clinicians have
AI capabilities assisting them.
• Recognize the trajectory of care and begin to create flexibility within many other services for
agentic AI tools to be deployed as they become clinically proven.
HHS has a critical opportunity to ensure that AI strengthens—not fragments—the clinician-patient
relationship. By aligning payment with clinically meaningful outputs and modernizing outdated modality
restrictions, the Department can ensure patient AI adoption happens in alignment with the patient care
team, rather than outside of it.
Thank you for your consideration of these recommendations. We look forward to continuing to work with
you on this important next step in America’s tech-enabled care journey. Please do not hesitate to contact
Rikki Cheung at rikki.cheung@connectwithcare.org with any questions or to schedule a meeting.
Sincerely,
Chris Adamec
Executive Director
8