How will you
design information
architecture to unlock
the power of data?
Creating the right data environment
for a connected health ecosystem

CONTENTS
3 Introduction
Health systems today are not
5
built to enable data liquidity
Keeping up with the velocity
6
and variety of health data
Creating the right data
8
environment for tomorrow
10 A frame of reference
An architecture built
12
in layers
Mix and match with
14
existing core systems
16 What lies ahead?
Laying the groundwork
17
for the coming years
18 Endnotes
19 Key contacts
Connect with us!
@EY_healthcare ey.com/health
2 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

INTRODUCTION
The health industry after the COVID-19 pandemic won’t be the same as before. In the long run,
the upside of this disruption is a permanent change in the way health systems, organizations and
consumers use digital health technologies. Widespread adoption of tech-enabled care and emerging
technologies will transform the very foundations of health and care. In this paper, we explore our
vision of an information architecture that will unlock the power of digital technologies to create the
connected health ecosystem of tomorrow.
What it means to be healthy has become broader, anchored around digitally enabled care, including
moving beyond the traditional confines of the health virtual delivery, remote monitoring and interactive
industry to embody a more diverse, integrated and person-centered tools.1
seamless system of care and well-being. Powered
We live in a highly connected society, and advances in
by digital health technologies, consumers are
technologies and 5G connectivity are making possible a
actively engaging with health systems in vastly
suite of new solutions around well-being, remote care,
different ways. Rather than being content with
smart homes and communities. And while complex and
touch points only when ill or injured, health and
high-risk cases and trauma care within a hospital will
care are transitioning to continuous engagement by
always play a vital role in health systems, care models
individuals, with many different stakeholders, and
across the board are migrating to lower-cost settings.
across the lifespan. Accustomed to on-demand and
Many of these lie beyond the four walls of the clinic or
self-directed experiences in other areas of their digital
hospital and are happening closer to the consumer —
lives, consumers expect something more; within the
at home or in the community. (Figure 1)
next decade, they believe that health care will be
Figure 1
ve Implantables rT ee tl ac io les r/ s P e
dicti
Pr cim ara ery
r
s
o
n
re ali
P Artificial Aged care z
intelligence providers e d
Sensors and
monitoring Wearables
Connected
platform
Social
Funders care
Hospital Social Life Government
determinants sciences
Analytics
Participatory
3
EY 2020 report on global health technology

More data than ever before will be collected by, and on
behalf of, individuals. Today, complete health records
from birth (if not before) that record care received and
other relevant data and that travel with the individual
are still largely an ambition. But eventually, our data
will be captured and used over a lifetime. Health and
social care systems create data with ease, but the
many technological, regulatory and cultural challenges
associated with the ownership, sharing and usage
of personal health data impede data integration.
(See the inset, “Fair data — unlocking data in the
public interest.”)
However, sharing organized and complete data to
generate insights for better health outcomes is
the driving force behind improving health. Using
better data in better ways will result in integrated
and prevention-focused care rather than merely
treating disease.
New care models and locations give rise to streams of
THE POWER OF DATA data, including behavioral, environmental and social,
that must be integrated with clinical data to provide
Fair data — unlocking data holistic and personalized care. For consumers, this
means tailored care and lifelong engagement. For
in the public interest
providers and payors, it means a longitudinal view of
The concept of a fair data economy is based on a the drivers of health and current and future demand.
broad sharing of data, not only among individuals For entrepreneurs, it means opportunities to bring
but also among service providers. This empowers disruptive solutions to the market.
individuals with the knowledge and tools to As this shift in the way health and care flows through
access and use their personal data. But making the system, an infrastructure that can connect and
data available to others facilitates medical share data, at scale, will be necessary.
research, innovation and further development
To deliver what the health ecosystem needs next would
of public goods. This reflects not only the rights
require a new information architecture — one that
of individuals to control their own data, but also
not only spans the health and social dimensions of an
recognizes the social and economic value of open
individual’s life journey but also realizes the immense
data. Based on consent-based data portability,
value of health data in accelerating novel approaches
the concept is consistent with Article 20 of the
for better and more efficient health and care.
European General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR). Data movability should be seamless, In this paper, we describe a new approach to health
requiring no effort from the consumer, similar to information architecture that we believe will create
telephone number portability. This not only puts the right data environment for a consumer-enabled
people in charge of their own data (as a right of care system and thus bridge the gap between the
citizenship) but also seeks to maximize the use information systems of today and the connected health
of, and value from, data. system of tomorrow.
4 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

HEALTH SYSTEMS TODAY ARE NOT
BUILT TO ENABLE DATA LIQUIDITY
Herein lies the problem — structural and technological issues, including access, (re)-usability and
interoperability of data, are barriers to moving toward systems built on data liquidity. Current
health information architectures have integration capabilities, but limitations around what can
be integrated and the sheer quantity of solutions (and thus integration points) make sharing data
within and across systems difficult.
Data is trapped in unconnected silos and incompatible Even so, in a relatively short time, moving from
through the use of different standards, interfaces paper-based to electronic health records (EHRs)
and semantics. Data sharing can be limited by vendor has greatly advanced the collection, management
restrictions and by information blocking by providers, and usability of health data. And while the current
payors and vendors for competitive advantage.2,3 generation of EHR systems is built for a clinical care
The logic layer that makes use of the systems’ data is environment, layers of modifications over time mean
hardwired within proprietary systems, which means that systems may be less agile in responding to
that customization is expensive and can’t be done in a changing models of care. True portability, persistence
modular fashion. Consequently, major changes are out and completeness of data records are still a long
of scope for most health organizations. way off, and clinicians’ dissatisfaction with EHR
systems is well-recognized.4 The ability of consumers
At present, interoperability issues are resolved using
to access their own information and share it with
intermediaries such as Fast Healthcare Interoperability
others is, at best, an afterthought. Typically, upward
Resources (FHIR) standards that allow different
of 400 systems 5,6 may exist within a complex health
applications and different health systems to talk to
organization. Continued use of paper records and the
one another. However, if health information systems
existence of feral systems,7 those that lie outside of
shared a common language (standards, semantics
authorized IT systems, further complicate data liquidity.
and structure), there would be no translational
interoperability friction, and bridging would not
be required.
“
Data is for life, not just for one system.
If we consider that as a principle, we will
design and procure systems differently.
Rachel Dunscombe
CEO NHS Digital Academy
5
EY 2020 report on global health technology

KEEPING UP WITH THE VELOCITY
AND VARIETY OF HEALTH DATA
It’s clear that we are reaching a pivotal point, where health and social data needs to be better
connected, combined and shared. Lessons from other industries are insightful. Open banking, for
example, caused a significant shift in the financial sector. It was built on strengthening consumers’
control of their own data. Secure and permissioned sharing of financial data with accredited third
parties through application programming interfaces (APIs) is opening the sector to new entrants,
including non-bank FinTech companies, bringing new revenue streams and better customer
experiences and mobility across the sector.8
In health care, we don’t yet have the means to connect The technologies that will connect us to a
the volume and variety of data in a way that keeps wellness-oriented, anytime, anywhere health
pace with the velocity at which health and social data ecosystem are available today. But the challenge
is generated. What data linkages there are, aren’t we face is creating something that doesn’t yet exist
comprehensive or seamless, nor are they accruing for in health — a ubiquitous information technology
optimal benefit. We must remedy this by designing for infrastructure that is built around data persistence
the future, with the entire system in mind. The potential (where an output lasts longer than the system that
for societal and economic dividends is a powerful generated it), extensibility (additional elements
incentive for scaling the exchange of data across or features can be added to an existing structure)
health systems. and true interoperability9 (the coordinated access,
THE POWER OF DATA
Social and economic benefit of data mobility
Data mobility in the fast-evolving digital economy gives rise to innovation
and social and economic benefits. A 2018 UK study conservatively
estimated that productivity and efficiency benefits (not including
benefits generated by digital innovation) enabled by personal data
mobility would result in an approximate £27.8b increase in UK GDP.1
Information is “non-rival,” meaning that it can be produced and
distributed at a very low marginal cost. Once consumed, information
doesn’t disappear but remains available for recombination and
reuse by others.
And thus, the digital economy is eminently scalable. As an information
network or platform, value arises through network effects — the more
users, the greater the benefits.
1. Data Mobility: The personal data portability growth opportunity for the UK economy,
a study by Ctrl-Shift for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport,
19 November 2018.
6 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

exchange and collaborative use of information Although the overall goal is ecosystem-wide
within and across organizational boundaries). interoperability, health organizations wanting to unlock
interaction data and to modernize their consumer
Improving patient outcomes and system performance
and staff experience face hard decisions around what
by integrating care among the patchwork of health
to pursue, what to repurpose or divest, and where to
and social care agencies requires a networked
invest. This means weighing the current state, including
and modular information framework. Widespread
existing deployments and contractual obligations, the
deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) and natural
life cycle stage of legacy systems, and the regulatory
language processing (NLP) that support the
and reporting environment. Strategy decisions will
management and usability of the sheer volume and
hinge on whether to optimize existing assets (by
complexity of heterogeneous health data is central to
modification or extension), introduce new modular
the new integrated data environment.
resources that complement the existing core or invest
This requires a system-level infrastructure to serve
in creating a new ecosystem from the ground up.
a three-part purpose: safe clinical care, appropriate
automation of clinical and back‑office operations,
and the delivery of personalized care and prevention.
This will not lead to abandoning existing core
services, such as EHRs, imaging and laboratory
systems; rather, these will become part of the
broader data ecosystem. (Figure 2)
Figure 2
A digital backbone underpinning the Holistic, longitudinal patient data
intelligent health care system, that integrates across data systems in
seamlessly integrating from the the clinical, social, home care,
home through to facility-based self-care and financial
care; clinical decision-making resources domains
algorithms, Al diagnostics,
case management and
Moving Organized
care delivery pathways
to organize systems from digital and complete
and processes
to smart capture
efficiently and
effectively systems of data
Advanced Anytime,
Built upon
analytics anywhere consumer-oriented
care virtual health
technologies (such as
apps, wearable and
Personalization, environmental sensors,
individualized care solutions video and chat platforms)
and business intelligence and cloud-based mobile clinical
insights through analysis of tools that capture and share
administrative, financial and information between health and social
clinical information care workers, at the point of care
7
EY 2020 report on global health technology

CREATING THE RIGHT DATA
ENVIRONMENT FOR TOMORROW
Over a decade ago, eight global health agencies called for a common data architecture for the
efficient generation and use of health information.10 And although progress has been slow,
consumer demand and supportive legislation will likely lead to greater health data exchange and
interoperability within the next five years.
Recent trends suggest that in some quarters, To progress toward a truly connected health
significant change is underway with reports of modern system, a data environment with no connection
interoperability platforms. For example, large-scale restrictions other than permissions and security is
open platform implementations have been introduced foundational. This, in turn, necessitates an open
in 16 countries, covering over 22 million patients.11 platform architecture that allows for the storage and
The European Commission has set standards for the linking of structured and unstructured data and that
exchange of patient health information across borders, determines how data flows. Design considerations
and regulators are taking an interest in data portability should provide clear data provenance to deliver
and interoperability in the European General Data trusted algorithms. Built on common standards, this
Protection Regulation. In the US, the Office of the platform forms the base for third-party applications,
National Coordinator (ONC) for Health Information ensuring safe and interoperable systems.
Technology in March 2020 made an important final
ruling. The ONC rule gives patients secure access to A gradual process of change
their data and implements interoperability requirements
through open data sharing via standardized APIs, and it Adoption and scaling of such an architecture will be
sets out provisions against information-blocking.12 a gradual process of localized activity and interest.
Enterprises will build micro-ecosystems based on the
As the focus of health systems moves toward
current state of their technology journey — these may
supporting wellness — anytime, anywhere — an open
be internal to an enterprise or coupled as networks
platform environment is required to connect and share
between different enterprises. But over time, and
data, at scale, within and among enterprises and
when all enterprise and local area activities are added
systems. The optimal platform will separate content
together, the overall ecosystem coalesces and a
and technology and will be vendor neutral, distributed
connected health ecosystem emerges. This is perhaps
and modular — incorporating third party as well as
more easily visualized with an analogy. Think of a
legacy systems.
cell with a permeable membrane that allows for an
This demands a new way of thinking about data.
orchestrated but free-exchange of material. The cell,
Rather than keeping it locked away in siloed systems,
along with many others, ultimately forms part of a
a decentralized and networked infrastructure could
larger, interconnected entity.
unify disparate information from multiple sources and
make sense of it. This means capturing and linking all
relevant data regardless of where it is stored.
8 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

9
EY 2020 report on global health technology

1
SECTION
A FRAME OF REFERENCE
To architect for the future requires a reference framework around technology,
data and end-user primacy
What this means What this delivers
• For consumers, permissioned free-flow Consumer control of their own health data
exchange of data built around a unique for engagement and better health outcomes.
User-centric individual identifier with a full audit trail. Customizable and adaptable operational
systems that meet business needs.
• For businesses, clinical and operational
data relevance.
• Built upon common rules that govern Vendor- and technology-neutral
access, content management, with infrastructure that works seamlessly to allow
Interoperable semantic and technical interoperability frictionless permission-based electronic
referenced to internationally accepted sharing of usable health information among
standards. patients, clinicians, researchers and others.
• Information and metadata reside at the Underlying data structure remains
point of creation while connecting with, unchanged at the site of collection and is fully
Decentralized and contributing to, local and national area provenanced to guarantee future insights,
health information systems. research, and third-party innovations
and apps.
• An architecture that is modular, built Allows for rapid changes as they occur,
on micro-services with no need for incorporating new data elements as they arise
Agile reconfiguration. Plug-and-play integration and scalability. Supports portability and safe
of devices and equipment, and extensible. and secure development and integration of
Separation of data and application layers. third-party innovations.
• APIs integrate data within an enterprise Accommodates heterogeneity in
and across enterprises. Integration with legacy systems, including EHR design,
Heterogeneous open platforms. implementation and use across the ecosystem;
applications seamlessly access information
from multiple sources.
• Based on accepted data security Governance and cybersecurity in a trusted
frameworks, assurance schemes and system that is secure, safe, reliable and
Secure standards for handling personal health performs as expected.
and social care information.
10 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

11
EY 2020 report on global health technology

2
SECTION
AN ARCHITECTURE BUILT
IN LAYERS
The future health and care information platform we describe separates the architecture into
different layers that organize transactions and interactions: the data layer, the application layer and
the logic layer: (Figure 3)
• The data layer helps deliver data that is up to Data is stored separately from the applications that
the task. It is standardized in terms of format, collect, edit and display it. Greater flexibility allows for
nomenclature, terminologies and definitions, which multiple use cases, multiple vendors and future growth.
allows it to flow into other systems, as specified by Such flexibility enables data to flow for better care models
the data owner. Good rules for data storage will not and data extensibility (e.g., across a patient’s lifetime).
change much, if at all, allowing for persistence and, Clean, standardized, shared data will enable both AI
ultimately, interoperability over time. and predictive analytics to come out of the data stream.
Also necessary is a rules base that governs access and
• The application layer requires a fully systemic
content management. It’s also essential to incorporate
design of workflow. This means knowing context, or
internationally recognized standards for terminology,
what comes before and after, in the care journey. It
interfaces, storage and coding of records, documents and
is based on triggered events of care or intervention
images. For example, SNOMED CT and LOINC and other
(e.g., clinical workflows or health consumer alerts)
standards developed and adopted over time.
rather than constant human monitoring.
Rapid innovation will take place in the application and
• The logic layer incorporates AI that is governed by
logic layers, all without altering the underlying data
a set of rules that define boundaries and exceptions
structure. As Figure 3 shows, in the next five years,
and can form workflows. AI and intelligence
the information architecture will shift from siloed
are monitored and managed by humans and
vaults of data that don’t talk to each other to a more
are subject to regular monitoring for audit and
harmonized arrangement.
clinical safety.
12 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

Logic units
AI
Extensible
AI Data layer AI
Vendor neutral
AI
Logic units
stinu
cigoL
Logic
units
Enterprise Individual health care identifier
Mobile
D
ata
A
pplication
Logic System 1 E coH rR
e
apps
IoT
D
ata
A
pplication
Logic System 2 M dee vd icic ea sl Voice
D ata
A
pplication
Logic System 3
Social Wearables determinants
D
ata
A
pplication
Logic System 4
...
... reB pi
a
oll ni rn
d
tg
in g
Implants
etc.
Personal Sensors Within one enterprise, typically 200 to 400 systems exist, devices
made up of different technologies and different vendors,
many of which
is
a br ue
n
n do let
d
c o wm ithpl e am ppe lin ct aa tr ioy na sn .d where logic Individual
health care
identifier
smetsys
ynaM
ytilibareporetni
detimiL
Figure 3
Now In five years
• Systemic design
• Common standards
where data is:
• Provenanced
• Permissioned
• Persistent
• Secure
• Cloud-based
• Modular plug-and-play
Present: Many systems all with intimately bound data logic Future: A cohesive technology stack, giving a unified experience
and applications for clinicians, professionals and patients; unique data at the center
accessed by applications in real time through micro-services
13
EY 2020 report on global health technology

3
SECTION
MIX AND MATCH WITH
EXISTING CORE SYSTEMS
As described, this will not require abandoning currently used core systems such as EHRs, laboratory
and radiological information systems. Rather, these will be a component of the broader data
ecosystem. Existing systems will still collect and reflect essential clinical and operational data.
Policy levers and market-driven purchasing preferences will likely shape future commercial product
development toward greater data standardization. Newer AI-driven solutions offer the opportunity to
quickly and inexpensively deal with high-volume data and to take on data discovery and replications.
A more flexible, dynamic infrastructure will be built APIs will persist into the future as ways of creating the
around existing systems, communicating through frictionless data layer, but they won’t be necessary
standard interfaces like FHIR and web APIs. The for creating terminology or future data standards.
APIs of today will inform the technical design of In the near term, platform-based systems and legacy
tomorrow but will also bridge the gap in data models EHRs will coexist by maintaining basic functionality
and current absence of system-level design. In the in legacy systems while building and innovating in a
future, systemically architected systems will mean platform-based environment.
that this bridging function will not be needed. Web
14 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

Internationally, there are numerous examples of steps digital health network built around data interoperability
being taken toward more open and interoperable to make health information available nationwide for its
systems. Estonia, for example, has almost fully 25 million members.
digitalized its health system and is currently
What these examples have in common is a steady
integrating health and social data for clinical
progress toward system change built around meeting
practice support and research. And several of the
end-user needs, vendor neutrality, data persistence,
Nordic countries, including Norway and Sweden,
and demand for flexibility and data fluidity. None of
are establishing permission-driven consumer and
these examples are big-bang changes; rather, they’re
clinician accessible health records that follow the
staged building blocks for the future.
patient, irrespective of care location. In the UK, the
And so, to recap, for health care organizations, the shift
Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust has deployed
in the ecosystem will likely look something like this:
an open EHR clinical data repository alongside a
an open platform and a clinical data repository, with
core patient record system to meet changing clinical
integration of legacy and third-party elements, that
requirements and to incorporate patient-recorded
support easy data migration and are transparent to all
outcome measures. And in Germany, the AOK, a
applications connected to the platform. (Figure 4)
major health insurance provider, is developing a
Figure 4
EHR core Ecosystem
and
third-party
Meds
apps
PAS
ED
Data
PATH/ repository
RAD independent
... from EHR
Theater
Local and national
systems
15
EY 2020 report on global health technology

WHAT LIES AHEAD?
While the overall goal is ecosystem-wide interoperability, there are several steps that health care
organizations and policymakers can take today to meet the demands of tomorrow. Even though industry
stakeholders may be totally invested, positioning for the next wave of data-driven change is paramount.
Where we see success in the marketplace is when Introducing a new health information architecture, either
organizations understand that the way forward is built at an enterprise or national level, requires alignment of
around data and technologies that grow the business facilitatory policies, determined leadership and clarity of
of tomorrow, rather than just a repeat of today’s governance. Good governance around data, for example,
procurement cycle. These organizations build from an is necessary to establish user trust (both consumer and
ecosystem mindset identifying what data are critical, clinician) and that privacy and security are maintained.
and the right strategy to access them. They follow a Yet the right environment for innovation must be
transformation agenda to create new business models fostered. As the care model shifts toward incorporating
as data becomes the central asset in the organization. community and social care, policy attention will be
necessary to align the governance and institutional
To shift with confidence toward an interoperable
factors around how health and social care organizations
environment means making decisions around
effectively work together.
what to grow or transform in the existing business,
scaling actions and investments at the right pace, Digital technologies form a data-driven foundation for
and driving cultural change across the organization. the future health industry, and conversations about
Also key is fostering innovation to create and test how we can use technology to make a real difference
effective blueprints for doing things differently by are long overdue. A systemically architected approach
using technology. Organizations must adapt business for the management of health data is an important step
models and partnering strategies to the realities of the toward a connected health ecosystem, and the technical
emerging ecosystem, augmenting their skills mix and elements for such a system already exist. But to move
capabilities by working with other organizations. forward, we will need to reconfigure the information
backbone of health care as a new, frictionless
Adaptive technologies will be best supported by
information architecture, strategically and thoughtfully.
agile operational processes and governance models
and implemented by individuals with data expertise.
16 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

To lay the groundwork for the coming years, here are three things to consider:
1 2 3
Framing up How ready What is the road map, given
the future is the organization the current stage along the
to change? technology journey?
Perspective shapes the narrative in an Future relevance requires both agility Transformation must occur at the right
organization — the future that stakeholders and confidence to shift, and to do so at pace for the organization and deliver
want to own and how they will create scale. But where best to begin? Clarity the right combination of elements that
value in the emerging wellness ecosystem. around where the greatest challenges are wanted and needed. Where legacy
The speed of technological change and and opportunities lie can be elusive. IT infrastructure already exists, the way
complexity in the health market require The speed of change is often slow, forward may lie with maintaining core
reflecting on purpose, capabilities and hampered by contractual obligations, functionality while investing in adaptable
priorities. One must also consider future capital intensive infrastructures and infrastructure such as open architecture
market conditions and the services sought legacy technologies. and blockchain-enabled solutions that
by the consumers of tomorrow. support a connected ecosystem.
? ? ?
To find out what creates value To identify the problem, ask: To develop the road map, ask:
and how to get there, ask:
• W hat are the pain points to be resolved? • W hat is the plan?
• What lens is your organization looking • For example, wanting to: • To optimize existing assets (either
through? How is purpose defined, and by modification or extension), to
• Drive better clinical outcomes
where do value streams lie: with the introduce resources that complement
consumer, the organization or both? • Respond to growing demand the existing core, or to create a new
• H ow will data shape future business • Migrate to new care models ecosystem from the ground up
models and reimbursement, and and teaming • W hat is the process?
what infrastructure must be in place • Reverse clinician burnout • A phased transition to new solutions,
to unlock interaction data and to
• Secure revenue streams a greenfield approach of creating new
modernize the employee and consumer
capabilities on a new platform, or a
experience? • Free investment resources through
big bang approach that converts all
back‑office automation
• What risk is involved, and how deep is capabilities to a modernized solution
the appetite for change — incremental • Step away from lock-in with in single or multiple events?
steps or redesign from the ground up? long-standing entangled systems
• What else must be done?
• T o what extent does the current tech • Design for trust, governance and
environment cause or exacerbate the align organizational culture — where
pain points, and how would changing boards and clinical and organizational
the technology environment resolve the leadership are comfortable with
problems? creating friction and deviating from
• What are the opportunities to the status quo, and have the skills
personalize, simplify and streamline? to do so
• Bring other stakeholders, including
the board and policymakers, along on
the journey
• Build the right in-house team with the
right capabilities to execute
17
EY 2020 report on global health technology

*
ENDNOTES
1. How will tech-enabled change play out in health care in the next decade?
A NextWave Health report, EYGM Limited, 2019.
2. J ulia Adler-Milstein and Eric Pfeifer, “Information blocking. Is it occurring
and what policy strategies can address it?” The Milbank Quarterly,
95(1) 2017: 117-135.
3. J ordan Everson and Julia Adler-Milstein, “Engagement in hospital health
information exchange is associated with marketplace dominance,”
Health Affairs, 35,7 (2016): 1286‑1293.
4. L isa Rosenbaum, “Transitional chaos or enduring harm? The EHR and the
disruption of medicine,” NEJM, 373:17, 22 October 2015.
5. R achel Dunscombe, CEO, NHS Digital Health Academy, interviewed by EY,
December 2019.
6. S abyasachi Dash, Sushil Kumar Shakyawar, Mohit Sharma and Sandeep
Kaushik, “Big data in healthcare: management, analysis and future prospects,”
J Big Data (2019) 6:54.
7. S hakera Halim, “Global healthcare systems: patient data and the rise of feral
information systems,” Health Europa, 4 July 2019.
8. Review into open banking: giving customers choice, convenience and
confidence, Department of the Treasury, Australia, December 2017.
9. T om Sullivan, “HIMSS writes new definition of interoperability,” Healthcare IT
News, 22 March 2019.
10. M argaret Chan, Michel Kazatchkine, Julian Lob-Levyt, Thoraya Obaid,
Julian Schweizer, et al., “Meeting the Demand for Results and Accountability:
A Call for Action on Health Data from Eight Global Health Agencies,” PLoS Med
7(1): e1000223. doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1000223.
11. A nze Droljc, “Is a mega-suite enough to really transform healthcare?”
better.care, 30 January 2020.
12. ONC’s Cures Act Final Rule, Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT,
March 2020.
18 How will you design information architecture to unlock the power of data?

KEY CONTACTS
Lead authors Contributors
David Roberts Sheryl Coughlin PhD
EY Global Health Leader EY Health Sciences and Wellness
david.roberts@uk.ey.com Senior Analyst
linkedin.com/in/davidrobertsey sheryl.coughlin@au.ey.com
linkedin.com/in/sherylcoughlinphd
Aloha McBride Jerome Pagani PhD
EY Global Health Leader-Elect EY Health Sciences and Wellness
Strategic Execution Leader
aloha.mcbride@ey.com
jerome.pagani@ey.com
linkedin.com/in/alohamcbride
linkedin.com/in/jeromepagani
Rachel Dunscombe Emily Mailes
CEO NHS Digital Academy Senior Manager, Digital Health
Ernst & Young ABC Pty Ltd
linkedin.com/in/rachel-dunscombe-b029b16/
emily.mailes@au.ey.com
linkedin.com/in/emily‑mailes‑4443784a
About the authors
David Roberts — At the time of writing, David was Global Health Industry Leader, EY Health Services and Wellness. In this role, he led the
global network of EY health industry professionals, with a focus on executing strategy and building strong cross-service line capability.
He has extensive experience in driving strategic reform, creating new business and operating models, and orchestrating the adoption of
new technology and innovation, while supporting startup innovators and entrepreneurs. He is an active commentator and speaker on
participatory health, the empowered consumer and the shifts in health care around digital health technologies.
Aloha McBride — Aloha serves as the EY Global Health Advisory Leader and has an extensive background in serving international health
care clients as well as federal health clients. She strives to share leading practices, knowledge and innovation with EY health care clients
so they may provide the highest quality care to their patients.
Rachel Dunscombe — Rachel is CEO of the NHS Digital Academy, KLAS Arch Collaborative International lead and strategic advisor
to the NCA/Salford NHS Group. She provides advisory services to the Secretary of State for Health in the UK and is the health care
representative on the UK government AI committee. Through her academic work, she has received a visiting professorship at Imperial
College, London. She is a non-executive director of the Digital Health Society and formerly the Director of Digital for Salford/NCA Group,
which was the most digitally mature organization in the NHS.
19
EY 2020 report on global health technology

EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory
About EY
EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory
services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build
trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the
world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver
on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a
critical role in building a better working world for our people, for
our clients and for our communities.
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or
more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each
of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited,
a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services
to clients. Information about how EY collects and uses personal
data and a description of the rights individuals have under data
protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy. For more
information about our organization, please visit ey.com.
About EY’s Global Health Sector
Across the world, health care systems and entities are under
unprecedented pressure. Spiraling costs, exacerbated by
aging populations and emerging market growth, are bringing
newfound focus on value and outcomes. Mobile health and data
analytics promise to revamp care delivery but are also bringing
in competitors from other sectors. For governments, payers and
providers, these trends create a host of challenges: extracting
insights from “big data,” partnering in new ways, boosting
operating efficiencies and more.
EY’s Global Health Sector brings together a worldwide network of
more than 4,000 sector-focused assurance, tax, transaction and
advisory professionals with a range of health care and business
backgrounds. Our wide-reaching network allows us to rapidly
share leading practices and solutions around the globe and
deploy diverse delivery teams to meet your needs. ey.com/health
© 2020 EYGM Limited.
All Rights Reserved.
EYG no. 002544-20Gbl
CSG no. 2003-3446456
ED None
This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is
not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax or other professional advice.
Please refer to your advisors for specific advice.
The views of third parties set out in this publication are not necessarily the views of
the global EY organization or its member firms. Moreover, they should be seen in the
context of the time they were made.
ey.com