How innovative infostructure
can power the purpose
of integrated care systems
Designing health information architecture to reach
a common ground of shared purpose

CONTENTS
Introduction 3
Featured insight 5
The NHS journey toward integrated care systems
Joined-up care means working differently 6
Featured insight 8
Connected health technology sits at the core
of all integrated care systems
Build for the future 10
Three building blocks to create the right environment 12
Conclusion: The essential foundation for new models of care 16
Contributors 17
Endnotes 18
2 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

INTRODUCTION
Integrated care systems (ICSs) tick all the right
boxes — ideally providing equitable, well-connected
and coordinated care across all aspects of a
person’s health and social needs, resulting in
healthier populations and more sustainable systems.
Supported by a contemporary and innovative
information infostructure, ICSs differentiate by
enabling and sharing insights through data at scale.
ICSs are a major step forward in better supporting people to live
“healthy, independent and dignified” lives.1 Collaborative systems
that join up or integrate care for people, places and populations,
ICSs are a long overdue recognition that working together, rather
than in fragmented silos, achieves better outcomes.
In England, 42 ICSs now cover all areas and are the result
of a steady shift in health policy over the past decade toward
the joining-up of services to better meet the needs of local
populations. ICSs are a major step toward value-based care and
represent a reordering of the philosophy and the clinical and
business models of health away from sickness toward wellness
and population health. In a clear departure from the past, ICSs
are founded on local or place-based integration, collaboration
and multiagency partnerships. In practice, addressing the
determinants of health by joining up the many threads of health,
social and community services keeps people and populations
healthier, independent and at home.
Globally, similar policy interest can be seen in the desire for
better integrating care and adapting care delivery through
such things as patient-centered care, shared decision-making,
medical homes and social prescribing.2,3,4 In Europe, policy
priority is directed toward responding to the needs of older
people through sustainable integrated care models delivered by
a coordinated array of providers.5 And, while not known as ICSs,
similar moves to integrated systems can be seen, for instance,
in Sweden, Denmark and Canada. (Refer to featured insight
“Connected health technology sits at the core of all integrated
care systems.”)
3

The vision for ICSs lies beyond providing better care in smarter Infostructures, or information systems that can create, connect
ways. Embedding within ICSs how services are planned and paid and share data, leveraging a semantic standard, at scale are
for means that they lie at the heart of improving the health of key to modernizing health systems. As data becomes the
whole populations and driving a more equitable distribution core asset of health and care, it will be used by thousands of
of health outcomes. As agents of change, ICSs push health people for different purposes across time and space. The data
and care systems toward a common ground of shared purpose. element itself must embody a meaning commonly shared by
(Refer to featured insight “Integrated Care Systems.”) all of those using it; otherwise, care delivery, analytics and
research will not be without risk of error. Data accuracy is vital.
The potential for societal and economic dividends is a powerful Conceiving of information systems as infostructure means
incentive for a shift in focus to integrated care. Although many designing information architectures to deliver speed-to-value,
things need to be in place to create and sustain ICSs, this paper or the continual development and rapid bringing to market of
focuses on what is foundational for ICSs to move from aspiration innovative products, such as new models of care.
to transformation.
Investment decisions need to be informed by a vision of how the
To unlock the power of ICSs as coordinated and collaborative future infrastructure will evolve to avoid becoming locked into
ecosystems requires a new approach to health information old architectures. Systems need to be architected for longevity,
architecture. This approach is one that not only spans the but they must weigh alignment of previous systems and yet be
health and social dimensions of an individual’s life journey, open to incorporate future standards. Key to this is getting the
but it also realizes the immense value of health data availability data information and governance systems right, getting the
in accelerating novel approaches for better and more efficient infrastructure and architecture right, and creating an education
health and care. and training environment to set the system up for sustainability.
An open platform environment, within and between enterprises
and systems, is called for.
4 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

FEATURED INSIGHT
The NHS journey toward integrated care systems
CONTEXT:1,2,3 NHS England’s then CEO, Simon Stevens, • Reduce health inequity via a data-led approach, drive
expressed concerns about the country’s “fractured” health and stronger relationships with voluntary and community sectors,
social care system being built around the needs of organizations and deliver continuous support to vulnerable groups
rather than patients.
• Leverage digital technology to improve health outcomes via
population health management tools, real-time data sharing,
Over the past few years, the NHS chief introduced a series
remote access to primary care, workforce education programs
of reforms, including the launch of sustainability and
and innovation hubs
transformation plans in 2015. This was the UK’s first major
step toward integrated care, as the NHS and local councils • Address workforce shortage via a collaborative, resource-
formed partnerships across 44 areas in the country. The goal sharing approach
was to meet the needs of the whole population in an area,
• Utilize physical assets (estates and buildings) to their
breaking down barriers between primary, secondary and
full potential
social care.
• Provide better financial and governance support to social
In 2017, the NHS launched its first group of accountable care care organizations
systems, which incorporated additional elements into the model,
such as mental health and voluntary organizations. These FUTURE:7 The Health and Care Bill came into effect in
accountable care systems subsequently became ICSs in 2018. July 2022, designating ICSs as statutory bodies. This primarily
There are currently 42 ICSs across England forming multiagency affects the planning and commissioning of NHS services:
partnerships of NHS, local government, voluntary, community
• The types of services available, who provides those services
and social enterprise organizations.
and who can be cared for will be overseen by a board of
directors in each area, the Integrated Care Board (ICB).
KEY FEATURES AND GOALS:4,5,6An ICS is designed
A second statutory body, the Integrated Care Partnership (ICP)
as a three-tiered model, spanning systems, places and
brings together the NHS, local authorities and others to focus
neighborhoods. Broadly, ICSs aim to:
on wider issues of health, public health and social care.
• Improve care quality and patient experience through primary
• There will be no competitive tendering process for NHS
care playing a central role in coordinating joined-up care,
services. However, it is yet to be confirmed whether the NHS
leading collaborative arrangements that support operating
will become the default service provider or not.
at scale, and driving a shared vision of investing resources
to improve population health and health equity • Private health companies will also have a role in decision-
making, which may be significant in some areas.
1 McConaghie, Andrew. “Just unveiled, the next big idea for England’s NHS.”
Pharmaphorum. July 5, 2017. 7 Thorstensen-Woll, Clair and Bottery, Simon. “Integrated care systems and social
2 NHS. “NHS moves to end ’fractured’ care system.” June 15, 2017. care: the opportunities and challenges.” The King’s Fund December 8, 2021.
3 Brennan, Sharon. “ACSs get a rebrand as NHS England seeks ‘next cohort,’”
HSJ February 3, 2018.
4 Charles, Anna; Naylor, Chris; and Murray, Richard. “Integrated care systems in
London. Challenges and opportunities ahead.” The King’s Fund. February 2021.
5 Charles, Anna. “Integrated care systems explained: making sense of systems,
places and neighbourhoods.” The King’s Fund, internet May 11, 2021.
6 NHS. “What are integrated care systems?” Webpage, no date.
5

JOINED-UP CARE
MEANS WORKING DIFFERENTLY
Smart digital technologies that support care delivery
and data that is fit for purpose (clean, standardized,
Delivering joined-up care means working
provenanced and permissioned) are vital in creating the
differently – providing care in people’s homes,
conditions under which local partnerships will thrive.
hospitals, clinics and the community with
collaboration among agencies, data sharing and
Foundational to the success of ICSs are integrated shared care
collective decision-making. Modern capabilities,
records, patient-derived data and the consolidation of data
for primary purposes, such as life-long risk stratification, and such as passive remote monitoring, help people
secondary uses, including research and population health.
Clinical records that follow the patient across different service manage their care at home while providing more
delivery systems and geographies support real-time clinical
efficient care delivery. This happens under the
decision-making. A digital architecture also allows for ICS-
based care plans that are shared between different health care oversight of a care team who provide exception-
providers. Digital tools and coordination of the flow of data from
a vast range of sources allow ICSs to identify the best way to based interventions when indicated. This very
improve the health and well-being of their populations.
different model of working requires different
ICSs will evolve at different rates and with different levels of tools and different ways of thinking about the
digital maturity; however, all will require a digital backbone
that is built to sustain the model. Integrating care among immense value of data.
the patchwork of health and social care agencies requires a
networked and modular information framework. This should
Dr. Jim Ritchie
support digitally enhanced care models, seamless access
CCIO and Deputy Director for R&I, Northern Care Alliance
to health information at the point of care, and appropriate
automation of clinical and back-office operations, and be in a
cloud-based environment for enhanced functionality and security.
The richness and variability of health and social care encounters At a minimum, modernizing the operating environment should
demand information infrastructures that are sufficiently agile integrate the vast amount of health-related information about
to accommodate the heterogeneity of many different existing an individual into an integrated shared care record. Spanning
systems. Such infrastructures also need to act as platforms of complex care pathways across many different organizations,
exchange. This means allowing the easy flow of data within and this should drive interorganizational information exchange that
between systems and analytics capabilities that support the use prevents errors, avoids inefficiencies arising from duplication,
of data for local needs, safely and securely. and supports primary care and health-at-home care models.
6 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

Diverse siloed data sets normally outside the clinical record need to meet local needs can be technically difficult and expensive.
to come together to be practical and useful. Critical to this is Layers of modifications over time means that systems may be
data liquidity within and between systems and the information less agile in responding to changing models of care. Purchasing
governance necessary for safe and secure data management EPRs for all acute settings, let alone extending into an integrated
and sharing. environment with community and primary care solutions, is a
significant investment that, for many reasons, may make only
Guidance from the NHS sets guardrails as to how ICSs are a marginal contribution to enhancing utility and interoperability.
intended to operate, including local determination of digital and
data capabilities within a common vision of national standards As major investments, health information systems need to
and system consistency.6 To this end, the NHS has signaled stand the test of time. This means not being constrained by
the intention to achieve universal electronic patient records elements that are holding back system modernization. Decision-
(EPRs) across all ICSs. This includes a managed convergence makers face hard choices around what to pursue and where
or “leveling-up” of EPRs over time by reducing the number to invest scarce resources. This includes weighing whether
of EPRs across acute care, community services, mental health, existing monolithic EPRs in use in the acute health system
ambulance services, primary care and social care.7 In the can extend to satisfactorily meet the information needs of the
past, some have speculated that the ultimate goal may be community, mental health and social care domains, as well as
a single national EPR system.8,9 EU countries are advancing providing an experience desired by both the individual and the
integrated care in decentralized locations through using eHealth clinician. Secondly, it needs to be ascertained whether such
technologies, including electronic health records (EHRs) and systems—often from different vendors—can jointly function as
remote monitoring and interfaces with social and welfare regional health information exchanges. Achieving the preferred
systems.10 National contexts vary; however, studies suggest experience of both the consumer and clinician builds the
that interoperable, regional EHR systems are more favorable foundations of long-term partnerships between the consumer,
in adopting integrated systems, rather than centrally managed, the clinician and the organization. Positive experiences can help
national EHR systems.11 change patient behaviors, improve care outcomes, and reduce
clinician burnout and turnover.
Managed convergence of existing EPR systems may be a quick
way to achieve digital maturity, but it can present challenges Successfully designing ICS systems requires careful thought
of data lock-in and a non-extendible data model, which brings concerning the underlying information infostructure and a
limited ability to integrate with community, mental health and clear view of the big-picture outcomes to be gained through
social care settings. The ability to customize monolithic EPRs modernizing the operating environment.
7

FEATURED INSIGHT
Connected health technology sits at the core
of all integrated care systems
EUROPEAN COMMISSION:1 To unleash the full potential DENMARK:5,6,7 The SAM:BO initiative in southern Denmark
of health data, the European Commission is presenting involves four hospitals, 22 municipalities and about 800
a regulation to set up the European Health Data Space. practitioners. It is an agreement-based, joint care model for
This proposal supports individuals in taking control of their own the management of chronic disease and patients with complex
health data; supports the use of health data for better health needs. It specifies guidelines for communication and cooperation
care delivery, better research, innovation and policymaking; between agencies and focuses on integrated care pathways
and enables the EU to make full use of the potential offered and effective transition between care settings. The goal is to
by a safe and secure exchange, and the use and reuse of health improve continuity of care between hospitals and municipalities,
data. This will be a health-specific ecosystem comprising especially at discharge, to help ensure seamless transfer of
rules, common standards and practices, infrastructures and older persons from the hospital to the community. The primary
a governance framework. tools used are information-sharing standards through an IT
platform and clarity of roles and responsibilities of organizations
SWEDEN:2,3,4 In most of Sweden, counties oversee health care, and workers. Since its inception in 2009, this initiative has
while municipalities are responsible for providing homecare been credited with increased patient satisfaction and shorter
and social care. However, Norrtälje, a city in Stockholm County, hospital stays.
is an exception. To meet the complex care needs of its aging
• ROI: The priority group for the service is the elderly, with
population, the Norrtälje municipality and the County Council
multiple comorbidities that are costly to manage and require
of Stockholm together launched an integrated care provider,
careful coordination. The guidelines and protocols allow both
TioHundra, in 2006. Instead of coordinating care across
vertical and horizontal integration across primary, secondary
organizations, TioHundra merged multiple care providers and
and social care, which has resulted in high-quality care
now operates as one large health and care system. This includes
outcomes at lower cost. For example, municipal services can
an emergency hospital, six primary health care clinics and a
deliver care in a timely manner, post discharge. The average
home health care organization. It also manages social care and
length of stay is considerably lower than in Denmark overall,
home care organizations and runs nine nursing homes.
and patient satisfaction measures also outperform those at the
• ROI: Moving from negative operating results to a positive country level. Coordination through a shared electronic care
net result thus lowered delivery costs while improving care plan and shared care portal has resulted in shorter lengths
quality. Integrated care has resulted in uplifting performance, of stay and decreased bed-days of those who no longer need
particularly in managing stroke and heart disease. Reduced hospitalization. Service delivery efficiencies arise through
medication prescribing and shortened emergency room wait using technologies, including providing virtual care tools to
times have been achieved, and workforce satisfaction is patients and providers; automation and intelligent logistics
high. Patient data is shared throughout the organization with and sensors; and decision support tools.
read-only functions in patient journals, and the organization
has consolidated different patient record systems to a single
(unified) record system. 5 World Health Organization. “Denmark. Country case study on the integrated delivery
of long-term care.” WHO Regional Office for Europe series on integrated delivery of
long-term care. 2019.
1 European Commission. European Health Data Space. Internet May 2022. 6 ECHAlliance. “South Denmark eHealth ecosystem is ECHAlliance Ecosystem
of the month – September.” 13 September 2021.
2 Widen, Sofia. “TioHundra Case Study. Part One: Company Overview.” Access health
7 Lupianez-Villaneuva, Francisco and Theben, Alexandra. “Strategic intelligence
international. February 2015.
monitor on personal health systems Phase 3 (SIMPHS3). SAM:BO (Denmark)
3 Back, Monica A., and Calltorp, Johal. “The Norrtaelje model: a unique model case study report.” European Commission, 2015.
for integrated health and social care in Sweden.” Int J Integ Care. 2915 Apr-Jun;
15:3016.
4 Hotopf, Max. “Interview: Peter Graf, CEO, TioHundra.” Healthcare Business
International. Policy Summit February 15, 2020.
8 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

CANADA:8,9,10 The Ontario government is building a connected • ROI: A key goal is to transform how health and care are
health care system centered around patients, families and provided and funded through an integrated care model that
caregivers. Introduced in February 2019, Ontario Health Teams improves outcomes and experiences for patients, draws upon
(OHTs) are groups of providers and organizations, including the key expertise of providers and covers the full continuum
hospitals, doctors, and home and community care providers, of care. The system is under development; however, hoped-
who work as one coordinated team, no matter where they for outcomes include a performance framework that delivers
provide care. Fifty-one OHTs operate across Ontario, with quadruple-aim goals. This framework includes performance
partnerships across more than 1,000 providers. The model is against selected indicators (patient and provider experiences,
designed to deliver seamless experiences across providers and health outcomes, value and efficiency); enhancing patient and
settings in a continuum of care. Primary care is foundational to provider-reported data; collaborative quality improvement
OHTs. The model assumes a digital first approach of both digital plans; and standardized, system-level performance indicators.
choices for patient care, health information and communication,
and information-sharing tools among providers. This includes
adopting technical standards, such as HL7 FHIR for messaging
and Open, RESTful (web applications); and digital tools, such
as Wait Times Information System, care dashboards, eReferrals
and Health Report Manager (HRM), which are all linked by
unified electronic health record. Population health management
is also a focus.
8 Ministry of Health. Ontario Health Teams. “Guidance for Health Care Providers
and Organizations.” No date.
9 Ministry of Health. Ontario Health Teams: Guidance for Health Care Providers
and Organizations. Webinar, April 8, 2022
10 M inistry of Health Ontario Health Teams Virtual Engagement Series OHT
Performance Measurement Framework. March 2021.
9

BUILD FOR THE FUTURE
The enduring vision of a shareable electronic health Open architectures are one way that the tension between
bottom-up innovation and data exchange and top-down
record at a national scale comes up against the
standardization and uniformity can be resolved. Composable
problematic experiences of many in attempting health care infrastructure allows incremental design whereby
real-time adaptations can be made at the time of need.14
to build and implement such systems in practice.12,13
A composable infrastructure means trading technically outdated
(parts thereof) applications, such as the clinical repositories from
monolithic EPRs with bespoke data models and poor APIs for
Getting the information backbone of the ICS ecosystem right applications that connect through rich APIs to carry out a clinical
is mission-critical, and infrastructure must be designed for the function. This allows innovation at the margin to create novel
future with the entire system in mind. This means sufficient solutions while having stable core systems. For example, all three
flexibility to benefit from emerging technologies (e.g., artificial of the largest Nordic vendors of EHR systems in Norway (DIPS),
intelligence, augmented and virtual reality, hyper automation, Sweden (Cambio) and Finland (TietoEvry), and the largest vendor
decentralized identities and digital twins); digital-first consumer of EHRs for elderly care providers in the Netherlands (Nedap),
and workforce experiences; and the capability to integrate within use a vendor-neutral data repository based on openEHR.15
a national system. By extension, this also adds robustness to Dedalus, a supplier of clinical and diagnostic solutions in many
future innovation curves that are yet to emerge. At the local European countries, has recently committed to openEHR.16
level, tapping into domain expertise to drive the information
model gives rise to new personalized care pathways where health The system should be federated, where the architecture is
and wellness come together. one of multiple interconnected nodes and shared principles,
governance and open standards. Such an architecture allows
The future vision should be that of systemically and semantically shared infrastructure services to scale incrementally over time,
architected open systems, built from an ecosystem mindset, links different domains together, and provides the means to share
that accommodate a plurality of approaches and information sensitive health data safely and securely. If built on an open
needs. This should be a dynamic infrastructure, where data is hybrid cloud platform that mixes on-site and third-party cloud
captured in a smart way, adheres to a shared semantic standard computing infrastructure, standard functions, such as patient
tailored to the specific use case and moves data through modern identity management and verification, can be provided nationally
interfaces, like RESTful web APIs. In this infrastructure, health while allowing for locally led workstreams and applications.
data captured in EPRs will need to be able to flow through In such arrangements, integrated shared care records become
this standards-based information backbone, either directly part of federated architecture that connects nationally. This
integrating with the backbone API or by publishing vendor- delivers a more resilient result than a centralized record and
controlled data objects in a format that can be mapped against it, allows for health data to be used for multiple purposes, such
like HL7 FHIR, which is designed for extracting data. as research and population health. A big advantage is that
10 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

repositories can stay under the immediate control of the installed base, enabling infrastructure and future model of care
individual provider, and data will be shared only when this is and infrastructure needs. Recently reported is the decision of
allowed by the data stewards of the individual notes. In other a Florida-based health care system to spend US$65m to switch
words, this is privacy by design. The NHS Spine is a good from one monolithic EHR system to another to allow access to
example of supporting IT infrastructure that joins together over patient records irrespective of location.24 The cost of switching
23,000 health care IT systems in 20,500 health and social from one siloed system to another is something that few can
care organizations.17 Other examples with local variations in afford, and it begs the question as to whether health systems
architectures and implementation strategies can be found in can continuously switch or change as needs evolve or choose
Scotland,18 Norway19 and Catalonia.20 to work with a vendor-neutral data layer instead.
Build on the installed base Further complicating this is the NHS target of achieving HIMSS
Few opportunities exist for greenfield sites; therefore, new level 5 for all ICSs by December 2023,25 bringing additional
uses and users must be interwoven with the pre-existing built burden to sustainable change. The total cost of ownership and
environment, the installed base. Changes and innovations are time to achieve of moving to a single system platform are prime
naturally constrained by what is already in place and what can considerations, including such things as licensing, technical
realistically be realized.21 As a result, a single procurement support and the need for legacy data conversions. Any future
or project will not achieve a transformative vision. However, state considerations must address the IT portfolio mix, as well
leveraging previous investments where they can add value goes as plan for advanced analytics, personalization and care
some way toward avoiding creating more data debt, where coordination through artificial intelligence, computer vision, IoT/
messy data governance and management lead to suboptimal IoMT and natural language processing. Lastly, it is not enough to
decisions and applications.22 This also applies to technical debt, simply strive for level 5. To have an impact, the NHS must focus
or the implied cost of additional rework caused by choosing also on governance and stewardship; building organizational
an easy but limited solution over a better approach that would capability; ensuring security and privacy; enabling information
take longer.23 sharing and integration across ICSs; enabling data and analytics;
and, probably most importantly, creating a consumer experience
The primary strategic question facing ICS decision-makers and engagement in this digital world based on human-centered
is how to best build scale with sustainable technology choices design principles.
that suit both national and local purposes, considering the
11

THREE BUILDING BLOCKS TO CREATE
THE RIGHT ENVIRONMENT
Creating the right environment for ICSs to thrive The optimal platform separates content and technology and
will be vendor-neutral, distributed and modular — incorporating
will be built upon the information architecture,
third-party, as well as legacy, systems. It provides a stabilizing
core features, and shared common terminology framework for maintaining governance mechanisms, including
standards, interfaces and rules. The architecture should be
and standards.
separated into different layers that organize transactions
and interactions: the data layer, the application layer and the
logic layer:
1. Infostructure information architecture • The data layer is standardized in terms of format,
nomenclature, terminologies and definitions, which allows
For a truly integrated ICS system, a data environment with no
it to flow into other systems.
connection restrictions other than permissions and security is
needed. This, in turn, necessitates an open platform architecture • The application layer requires a fully systemic design of
that allows for the storage and linking of structured and workflow based upon triggered events of care or intervention
unstructured data and determines how data flows. A decentralized (e.g., clinical workflows).
and networked infrastructure will unify disparate information
• The logic layer contains sets of rules that define boundaries
from multiple sources and make sense of it. This means capturing
and exceptions and can form workflows.
and linking all relevant data, regardless of where it is created
and stored. As Figure 1 shows, the information architecture of the future will
shift from many fragmented systems with limited interoperability
to a more harmonzied arrangement.
Figure 1: Health information architecture today and tomorrow
Today’s health information architecture The health information architecture of tomorrow
Enterprise Data layer
S2
S1
Logic Vendor neutral Extensible
Data AI
Many Limited Logic units
systems interoperability
IoT Medical devices
Voice Social determinants
Implants
Billing and reporting
Sensors
Wearables Personal devices
Mobile Apps EHR core
Application S3
Health information architecture that is siloed and disconnected prevents the true exchange When it’s quicker and easier to share deeper data, everyone serving the patient benefits.
Health information architecture that is siloed and disconnected prevents the true exchange of data in ways that help improve care. When it’s quicker and easier to share deeper data, everyone serving the patient benefits.
of data in ways that help improve care.
Source: Ernst & Young LLP
12 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

2. Core features
Architecting for the future requires a reference framework around technology, data and end-user primacy.
CORE FEATURES
Built around consumer trust, preferences and control of their own health, lifestyle, behavior and
User-centric social data for engagement and better health outcomes. From a business and operational perspective,
customizable and adaptable systems of clinical and operational data.
Shared principles and rules that guide and safeguard health data use and sharing practices to protect
Governed
privacy, enable efficiencies, promote quality and foster research.
Common rules govern access and content referenced to internationally accepted open standards.
Interoperable
A set of community sourced common data models is used for storing and sharing data.
Applications or logic developed on top of the data layer should be able to run with no change on any
Portable
independently developed implementation of the data layer.
Data is created at multiple points in a united network. Data provenance is fully documented and data
Federated
are sufficiently liquid to move within and across systems in the federation.
The data layer is based on vendor neutral standards. Anyone implementing a node to store and
Vendor neutral share care information may elect to use any technology from a vendor of their choice supporting
these standards.
An architecture that is modular and built on micro-services with no need for reconfiguration. Allows for
plug-and-play integration of devices and equipment and for extensibility. Structural separation of data
Flexible
and application layers. Low-code development functions that allow flexible creation of applications for
specific use cases.
Open RESTful APIs that integrate data between participants. Accommodates a variety of legacy systems
Open APIs as well as allowing third-party innovations. These APIs allow for easy integration in web applications.
The specifications of these APIs should be freely available.
Where technical, governance and cybersecurity elements meet accepted data security frameworks,
Secure and Safe assurance schemes and safety and reliability standards for handling personal health and social
care information.
13

3. Data and terminology standards
Health information systems should share a common language Data standards fall into three categories: interoperability
(standards, semantics and structure), thus avoiding translational standards, clinical data models and clinical terminology
interoperability friction and the need for bridging between standards. (Refer to Figure 2.) Several international standards
systems. Separating the data layer from applications is achieved are backed by the WHO in terms of increasing efficiency,
by putting a semantic-rich common data model that references quality and safety, as well as scalability of health systems.
a common set of ontologies at the center of design for every use Those supported include HL7/FHIR, Integrating Healthcare
case and then selecting and constraining the relevant predefined Enterprise (IHE), openEHR and SNOMED CT. The newly
data elements required for a specific use case across the health released ISO 13972:202226 covers clinical information models
and care system. A bottom-up approach, where the bulk of and specifies logical models of clinical concepts to define and
the semantic standards evolve use case by use case in parallel structure clinical information, including enabling information
in different ecosystems, will likely fail and inevitably result in reuse for such things as public health monitoring.
many dialects.
FigPurlea 2:t Pfloatfrormm S tSantdaardns odf Haeraldth sCa roef Health Care
Interoperability
and workflow
HL7
IHE
FHIR
SNOMED CT
openEHR
LOINC
OMOP
ISO 11073
Supporting Clinical model
clinical terminology and pervasive data
Source: Professor Rachel Dunscombe, Visiting Professor at Imperial College London and UK government strategic advisor
14 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

Interoperability and workflow Clinical model and pervasive data Supporting clinical terminology
• HL727 provides interoperability standards • openEHR provides semantic rich Clinical terminologies provide clinical codes
for exchanging data across systems community sourced health data models, for tests, procedures, diagnoses, and other
regardless of how the data is stored, published under a creative commons technical clinical terms.
such as records from traditional EPRs. license. These common data models
HL7 also includes the FHIR standard are supported by a robust reference The following allow for the fine grained
offering modern RESTful APIs. model and state-of-the-art software recording of the bulk of health data:
specifications, including a RESTful API
• The IHE profiles are used to implement • SNOMED CT: Systematized
and a query language. This allows for
clinical processes and workflows for a Nomenclature of Human Medicine
rapid, data standards driven, application
particular clinical need or pathway. They Clinical Terms.
development where data is safely stored
are used globally to bring together
for longevity. • LOINC: Logical Observation Identifiers
meaningful clinical process from other
Names and Codes
standards such as HL7 messages and • The OMOP common data model
imaging standards. allows analysis of data from different • ISO/IEEE 11073: Set of standards for
observational data bases. Administrative medical and personal health devices
and health data are transformed
into a common format with common
terminologies, vocabularies and
coding schemes to support systematic
analyses.28
15

CONCLUSION
INFOSTRUCTURE:
THE ESSENTIAL FOUNDATION
FOR NEW MODELS OF CARE
Sharing organized and complete data to generate insights for enablement is key to modernization, and the primacy of data
better health outcomes is the driving force behind joined-up care liquidity is beyond question. The tools to deliver such liquidity
in ICSs. This demands an information architecture that supports must enhance, not impede, the permissioned sharing of
a longitudinal health and care record, shared services between complete data, which gives rise to service model and operations
different resources and the easy exchange of structured data innovations for better health outcomes. ICSs are a perfect
across systems. example of the need to consider the needs of all information
users and help ensure that a sufficiently agile system underpins
Although the NHS points ICS decision-makers toward consolidation the model.
and enhancement of existing EPR assets,29 an alternative
approach warrants consideration. Planning wisely means envisioning future scenarios, including
innovative models, ready access to quality data and anticipation
Open platform systems will produce significant value as a of future issues. The growth of health data coming from insecure
result of seamless data flow across the entire health and care sources, including IoT, wearable and remote networks, brings
value chain — from primary and community care through to cyber risk, along with benefits arising from using quantum
hospital systems. Experiences in European countries, Canada computing to analyze the data. Quantum security will be
and the United States suggest that ROI flows from improved required to combat security gaps in the system. In planning
user experiences and patient satisfaction, reduced workforce for the longer term, where should the investment decision lie?
burnout, and personalized care with improved quality and health Pay now and avoid adding yet another layer of technical debt,
outcomes. Other benefits realized include reduced utilization or pay later and add risk to legacy treatment of data? Leveraging
of hospital beds, reduced wait times and more timely care the infrastructure described in this paper gives health care
transitions. Greater efficiency of available resources through systems a potential uplift in anticipating future demand for
sharing, the reduction of duplication and upskilling human such things post quantum cryptography.
resources to deliver a broad range of services rather than relying
upon traditional specialty roles also arise. At a population health Integrated shareable care records replete with good-quality data
level, benefit accrues through capturing and analyzing vast flows are the backbone for any future health and care system. This is
of data to direct effort and focus on preventative measures and too important to get wrong. In this early stage of transition
public health services. As a result, social and economic benefit to ICSs, opportunity exists to weigh alternatives carefully.
arises through improved quality of life; economic impact in lower If information infrastructure is viewed through a different lens,
utilization and costs; and, at a societal level, benefit through that of open platforms and systemic design, the building blocks
workforce upskilling, local economy renewal, and a harmonized of a truly transformational change become clear.
and more sustainable care delivery system.
Collaborations that combine health, social and community
Health systems need to plan with a long-term view of the future. expertise offer great promise, but could be even better
Beyond immediate need, strategic considerations must revolve if supported by a frictionless information architecture that
around the vision for a modernized health system. Technology ultimately delivers a connected ecosystem.
16 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

CONTRIBUTORS
Aloha McBride
EY Global Health Leader
aloha.mcbride@ey.com
linkedin.com/in/alohamcbride
Erik Vermeulen
EY Global Smart Health Solution Leader
and Netherlands Health Consulting Leader
erik.vermeulen@nl.ey.com
linkedin.com/in/erikvermeulen
Professor Rachel Dunscombe
Visiting Professor at Imperial College London
and UK government strategic advisor
Dr. Sheryl Coughlin
EY Global Health Senior Analyst
Aishwarya Benjwal
EY Health Sciences and Wellness Analyst
For more information
Find related points of view at ey.com/smarthealth.
17

ENDNOTES
1. Department of Health & Social Care. “Joining up care
for people, places and populations.” February 9, 2022.
2. World Health Organization. “Framework on integrated,
people-centred health services.” Report by the Secretariat,
Sixty-Ninth World Health Assembly, April 15, 2016.
3. Berwick, Donald. “What ‘patient-centered’ should mean:
Confessions of an extremist.” Health Affairs 2009, 28(4)
w555-w565.
4. Gusmano, Michael K., Maschke Karen J., and Solomon,
Mildred Z. “Patient-centered care, Yes; Patients as
consumers, No.” Health Affairs 2019, 38(3) 368-373.
5. World Health Organization. “Denmark. Country case
study on the integrated delivery of long-term care.”
WHO Regional Office for Europe series on integrated 11. Melchiorre, Maria G., Papa, Roberta., Quattrini, Sabriina.,
delivery of long-term care. 2019. Lamura, Gionvanni., and Barbabella, Francesco. “Integrated
care programs for people with multimorbidity in European
6. NHS. “Integrated Care Systems: design framework: countries: eHealth adoption in health systems.” BioMed
June 2021. Research International, 2020.
7. Hoeksma, Jon. “Major push on EPR ‘convergence’ 12. McLoughlin, Ian., Garrety, Karin., Wilson, Rob., Yu, Pin.,
and levelling up from the centre.” Digitalhealth.net. and Dalley, Andrew. “The Digitalization of Healthcare:
March 10, 2022. Electronic Records and the Disruption of Moral Orders.”
2017 Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
8. Hoeksma, Jon. “Speculation of national Epic deal
with NHS England.” Digitalhealth.net. October 7, 2021. 13. Cresswell, Kathrin M., Worth, Allison., and Sheikh, Aziz.
“Integration of a nationally procured electronic health
9. Lynn, John. “Speculation of $10 billion Epic deal with record system into user work practices.” BMC Medical
NHS England – Would that help?” Healthcare IT Today Informatics and Decision Making 12(15) 2012.
October 12, 2021.
14. Gartner. “Gartner keynote: The future of business
10. Melchiorre, Maria G., Papa, Roberta., Quattrini, Sabriina., is composable.” Internet October 19, 2020.
Lamura, Gionvanni., and Barbabella, Francesco. “Integrated
care programs for people with multimorbidity in European 15. OpenEHR International. Industry partners. Internet 2022.
countries: eHealth adoption in health systems.” BioMed
Research International, 2020. 16. Dedalus. “Dedalus Joins openEHR International.” Internet
May 26, 2022.
18 | How innovative infostructure can power the purpose of integrated care systems

17. NHS Digital. Spine. Internet, last updated 2021. 24. Diaz, Naomi. “Florida health system to spend $65M
on Cerner to Epic transition.” Beckershospitalreview
18. Hann, Alistair. “Blog/What is the National Digital Platform May 27, 2022.
Made of?” NES Digital Service. Internet April 2019.
25. Hoeksma, Jon. “Major push on EPR ‘convergence’
19. Green, Alex. “EMR/EHR development in the Nordics.” and levelling up from the centre.” Digitalhealth.net.
Signify Research December 2018. March 10, 2022.
20. International Foundation for Integrated Care. “Developing 26. International Organization for Standardization. “ISO
a new model of information systems and Electronic Health 13972:2022. Health informatics — Clinical information
Records in Catalonia.” Internet February 16, 2022. models – Characteristics, structures and requirements.”
February 2022.
21. Aanestad, Margunn., Grisot, Miria., Hanseth, Ole., and
Vassilakopoulou, Polyxeni. “Information infrastructures 27. HL7 International. HL7 Version 3 Product Suite. Website.
within European Health Care. Working with the installed Available from www.hl7.org/implement/standards/
base.” Springer eBook, 2017. product_brief.cfm?product _id=186
22. Travkin, Petr. “Data debt: what it is and how to estimate it.” 28. Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics.
Medium.com May 27, 2020. OMOP Common Data Model. Internet, last updated 2022.
23. Mitchell, Hannah. “Technical debt catches up to CIOs 29. Hoeksma, Jon. “Major push on EPR ‘convergence’
who launched flawed tech to meet pandemic needs.” and levelling up from the centre.” Digitalhealth.net.
Beckershospitalreview July 19, 2021. March 10, 2022.
19

EY | Building a better working world
EY exists to build a better working world, helping to create long-
term value for clients, people and society and build trust in the
capital markets.
Enabled by data and technology, diverse EY teams in over 150
countries provide trust through assurance and help clients grow,
transform and operate.
Working across assurance, consulting, law, strategy, tax and
transactions, EY teams ask better questions to find new
answers for the complex issues facing our world today.
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more,
of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is
a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company
limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Information
about how EY collects and uses personal data and a description of the
rights individuals have under data protection legislation are available
via ey.com/privacy. EY member firms do not practice law where
prohibited by local laws. For more information about our organization,
please visit ey.com.
About EY’s Global Health Sector
Across the world, health care systems and entities are under
unprecedented pressure. Spiraling costs, exacerbated by aging
populations and emerging market growth, are bringing newfound focus
on value and outcomes. Mobile health and data analytics promise to
revamp care delivery but are also bringing in competitors from other
sectors. For governments, payers and providers, these trends create
a host of challenges: extracting insights from “big data,” partnering in
new ways, boosting operating efficiencies and more.
EY’s Global Health Sector brings together a worldwide network of more
than 10,000 sector-focused assurance, consulting, strategy, tax and
transaction professionals with a range of health care and business
backgrounds. Our wide-reaching network allows us to rapidly share
leading practices and solutions around the globe and deploy diverse
delivery teams to meet your needs. ey.com/health.
The views of third parties set out in this publication are not necessarily
the views of the global EY organization or its member firms. Moreover,
they should be seen in the context of the time they were made.
© 2022 EYGM Limited.
All Rights Reserved.
EYG no. 007105-22Gbl
2207-4071887
ED None
This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and
is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, legal or other professional
advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice.
ey.com