 Equal Opportunity Employer Healthcare Facility Regulation | Medical Assistance Plans | State Health Benefit Plan | Health Planning Russel Carlson , Commissioner Brian P. Kemp , Governor 2 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive SE, East Tower | Atlanta, GA 30334 | 404 -656-4507 | www.dch.georgia.gov The Honorable Administrator Mehmet Oz, M.D. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Dr. Mehmet Oz, Georgia recognizes the need to modernize healthcare by making it more accessible, more transparent, and more responsive to the people it serves. The state of Georgia is actively pursuing innovative approaches that use digital tools and public-private partnerships to improve how individuals engage with their health and coverage. Specifically, t he Georgia Department of Community Health (DCH) is focused on delivering better care, better outcomes, and greater value to the eligible people we serve through Georgia Medicaid and the State Health Benefit Plan. Sharecare has proven to reflect innovation that aligns with Georgia’s healthcare transformation strategy. I t offers a strong foundation for a more connected and consumer- friendly healthcare experience. We believe Georgia is uniquely prepared to serve as a Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services’ demonstration site for the Health Technology Ecosystem initiative. Governor Brian Kemp has indicated he is supportive of this pilot initiative being conducted in the state of Georgia as well. The Department is committed to working collaboratively with CMS to test and advance solutions that make healthcare work better for eligible individuals and families, not just in Georgia, but across the country. We welcome the opportunity to be part of this important effort. Sincerely, Russel Carlson , Commissioner Georgia Department of Community Health 
 The Honorable Administrator Mehmet O z, M.D. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Dr. Mehmet Oz, The state of Georgia has worked diligently to revolutionize our healthcare system and eliminate burdens that reduce access to quality, affordable care. Georgia leaders recognize the opportunity that innovative digital too ls and public -private partnerships present to leverage modern technology and assist every consumer in making the right choice for them and their famil y. In particular, t he Georgia Office of Commissioner of Insurance and Safety Fire (OCI) has worked diligently to give our citizens the opportunity to enroll in coverage that best fits their health needs through our stated- based exchange, Georgia Access. Georgia Access is the first s tate-based e xchange to implement an innovative model that offers consumers multiple ways to enroll in health coverage including through an extensive network of certified agents and Enhanced Direct Enrollment (EDE) partners, such as a web brokers and insurance companies. At the conclusion of Open Enrollment 2025, over 1.5 million Georgians enrolled in plans for that year, including more than 225,000 consumers who previously were not enrolled in a plan through healthcare.gov. Our success is a product of many years of effort that Governor Kemp, the Georgia General Assembly, a nd other statewide leaders’ have put towards the health and well -being of our citizens. As a result, we are enthusiastic about Sharecare’s proposal and believe our state is an apt fi t as a Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ demonstration site for the Health Technology Ecosystem i nitiative. We appreciate your consideration to collaborate with our state to develop and implement cutting -edge technologies that create better health outcomes fo r Georgia and beyond. Sincerely, John F. King, Commissioner Georgia Office of Commisssioner of Insurance and Safety Fire 
Franklin College of Arts and Sciences Office of the Dean Commit to Georgia | give.uga.edu An Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action, Veteran, Disability Institution Building, Suite # Address Athens, Georgia 30602 TEL 706-542-0000 | FAX 706-583-0000 jdoe@uga.edu www.uga.edu Old College Athens, Georgia 30602 TEL 706-542-3400 www.franklin.uga.edu 13 June, 2025 The Honorable Administrator Mehmet Oz, M.D. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Dr. Mehmet Oz: As Georgia’s flagship public research institution, the University of Georgia is committed to improving the health and well-being of our state through evidence-based innovation. The Franklin College of Arts and Sciences is a hub for research and public service in areas that advance health access, accountability, and secure systems, drawing on deep faculty expertise in AI, computing, data science, cybersecurity, bioinformatics, and related social, behavioral, environmental, and epigenetic factors. We are pleased to announce our interest in working with the leading state healthcare organizations, government, and Sharecare to advance Georgia as a national demonstration site for CMS, and to leverage independent evaluator expertise for this important initiative. Sharecare’s approach to digital healthcare navigation presents a rare opportunity to rigorously assess the impact of an intelligent, AI-enabled navigation platform across Medicaid, Exchange, employer-sponsored, and provider-aligned populations. It is expected that an evaluation team would focus on areas such as: • Access and health care availability: Are individuals able to more easily understand, access, and act on their coverage and care options? • Cost and system efficiency: How does navigation influence downstream utilization, total cost of care, and administrative burden? • Experience and usability: Do members, providers, and care teams find value in the interface and recommendations? • Population health impact: Are measurable improvements seen in screening, adherence, engagement, and outcomes? This effort would apply rigorous academic standards and share findings publicly to contribute to the national learning agenda. We are excited to be invited to contribute expertise to this promising initiative, which will undoubtedly deliver important new methods to improve health outcomes in the state of Georgia and beyond. Sincerely, Anna Stenport, PhD Professor and Dean 