February 20, 2026
Assistant Secretary Thomas Keane, MD
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy / Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology
Attention: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A,
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201.
CC: Steven Posnack, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, ASTP/ONC
Re: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
part of Clinical Care
RIN 0955-AA13
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane,
This comment is by 1upHealth, a scalable serverless cloud data provider leveraging the power of
the FHIR data standard to combine claims and clinical data for analytics and APIs to change
behavior. We applaud the work of ASTP/ONC to enable modern APIs and power a digital health
economy giving patients apps of their choice. We appreciate the ongoing work of ASTP/ONC in
exploring how to make AI more practical for patient care.
General Points
AI relies on data and in particular good AI relies on good data. Without adequate data downstream
HHS AI policies will be ineffective. HHS, in particular CMS payment policies, should focus on data
fluidity and transparency and do so with robust privacy protections. As a practical matter this
means incenting use of FHIR APIs and requiring public key cryptographic protections for the only
parties with an actual right to patient data – namely the patient, the patient’s providers and the
patient’s payer.
The fundamental challenge to get data for legitimate uses including AI is that CMS provider
payment policies heavily incent making data NOT AVAILABLE whether for AI or any pro-
280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health

competitive purpose. Core to this is disproportionate payment for procedures so the dominant US
business model has become that of an oligopoly provider using a single EHR where vast amounts
of data are used internally and shared with other oligopoly customers but where external release of
that same information to potential competition is heavily gated by cumbersome procedures,
disproportionate costs, ancient protocols and at times outright throttling of data flows. This
“information blocking” has been the pattern in healthcare for decades after widespread
interoperability became the norm in every other sector of the economy.
As a start CMS payments should be made dependent on provider documentation being made
available with modern RESTful APIs. The CMS standards group could modify X12 so that every
provider claim includes the URL where documentation for the billed service becomes available to
patient’s, their apps (both AI and otherwise) as well as true HIPAA Covered Entities.
HHS could be the center of a modern digital healthcare economy serving patients. While HHS has
historically supported FHIR APIs in the original 2020 Cures Act rule and with payer provided APIs
under the CMS 0057 rule. Now HHS appears to support institutional information blocking in the
form of TEFCA. The 2016 Cures Act defines information blocking as interfering with the “access,
exchange and use” of patient data – TEFCA does all three. TEFCA’s brokers interfere with data
access, TEFCA’s ancient AOL / Yahoo era protocols interfere with data exchange and TEFCA’s
document-only architecture interferes with data use. TEFCA proponents (not surprisingly
incumbent data holders and those trying to sell patient data to third parties circumventing HIPAA)
state that TEFCA will be moving to FHIR (the JSON based data standard). They have claimed this
for the last 5 years yet TEFCA does not appear to have performed a single bona fide API
transaction using FHIR.
Modern AI works best with massive amounts of data. TEFCA’s antiquated architecture and
baroque protocols are not up the task of moving the large amounts of data needed for robust AI.
The cellphone Internet economy does billions of JSON transactions DAILY.
The Internet uses robust public key cryptography and “zero-trust” security for data needing
protection. This is in stark contrast to TEFCA’s “just trust me” faux-HIPAA “permitted uses”. This
end run around HIPAA is so brittle that TEFCA participants – the same QHINs which are supposed
to vet other participants – are currently engaged in multiple lawsuits around their wholesale
misappropriation of patient data. The data being resold here has almost invariably been
subsidized by taxpayers.
Actual privacy and security should be the ground assumption for HHS AI work. RESTful and Bulk
FHIR APIs anchored by public key cryptography can provide this level of privacy and security just
as they do in banking and defense. HL7 has extensive implementation guides for healthcare
versions of these APIs. HHS AI use should build on these APIs. Using such APIs CMS could
analyze Medicare claims for fraud (matching actual diagnoses, plausible providers and appropriate
services). MA, Medicaid and commercial plans could use similar tools and because working APIs
are real-time this can be done before fraudulent claims are paid. Using the Bulk FHIR APIs which
are batch mode population level APIs, CMS and other payers such as the VA and DOD could use
AI to correlate patterns of care and best practices with outcomes and do so on a broad basis.
280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health

Today CMS measures quality with cumbersome data collection - QRDA for providers and Primary
Source Verification for payers.
It is key for HHS to realize that enablement of ethical AI and patient-controlled digitally based
competition are largely one and the same. Both rely on the same data and the same privacy
security models. While one can see alternate data acquisition tools such as screen-scraping
(robotic process automation) or any number of proprietary EHR vendor-gated strategies
widespread use of AI in healthcare will require public APIs. Patients want apps which are smart,
real-time, low cost and maximally effective. They do not want to be bound to only those services
provided by incumbents and their “portals” or TEFCA’s convoluted IAS barriers.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its adoption
and use in clinical care?
The biggest barrier to the use of AI in healthcare is the reality that much if not most clinical data is
held by a few EHR vendors and only available to whatever AI programs those vendors decide to
allow. The vast bulk of data hidden here has been paid for by US taxpayers.
One major HHS policy would be to require that the EHR vendors patient-portals are required to run
entirely through public APIs rather than hidden connections. Any patient data including scheduling
which is not available at the same level of performance to outside competitive patient record
products should be considered information-blocking. Cures Act enforcement should be initiated
against both the EHR and the provider using that EHR. Having patient-controlled apps on a
somewhat level playing field with provider / vendor-controlled apps would allow patients to get
apps giving the patient their AI optimized medical advice and guidance the form patients as
consumers decide on rather than being bound to their provider portal.
Another massive policy opportunity to open up data for AI is in how CMS pays Medicare
Advantage plans. The Star ratings program and HEDIS measures use outdated data feeds. This
data is not exposed to public APIs which AI vendors could use to improve the efficiency and cost-
effectiveness care. One outgrowth of current Star rating policy are the so-called vendor Payer
Platforms where EHR vendors use private APIs to help providers and payers game higher Star
ratings. CMS should zero out payments for any relevant Star rating measures unless that data
was obtained through a public API with each data element tagged with the metadata of that public
API call. By requiring all Star ratings exclusively use public API data the entire quality
measurement landscape could then be modernized by AI. This would have secondary public
benefits of helping reform quality measurement and helping payers better negotiate on behalf of
taxpayers and beneficiaries.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to
incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or
programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please
provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
The Cures Act requires that ALL data be made available. The 2020 ONC Cures Act rule predated
widespread use of LLMs and had as its only requirement that each data field had a vocabulary tag
280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health

of the vendor’s choice. ASTP should consider fleshing out the opportunities to more richly enable
AI with this Cures Act requirement.
3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise novel legal and
implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability structures (e.g.,
relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel legal and
implementation issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to help address them?
Requiring patient permission using modern cryptographic principles would be a solid foundation for
AI data use.
8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and
accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types, data
standards, and benchmarking tools.
Requiring the large volumes of healthcare data needed for quality measurement and Star ratings to
flow through public APIs rather than NCQA Primary Source Verification screen reviews or private
payer provider platforms (which inevitably become anti-competitive) would be fundamental
interoperability reforms. Incenting modern high-performance RESTful FHIR APIs rather than
TEFCA’s brittle, expensive, slow and insecure document flows should be central to Federal policy.
Thank you for reviewing these comments.
Sincerely,
Donald W. Rucker, MD
Chief Strategy Officer, 1upHealth
280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health