Your journey to
Ai-readiness starts with dataopus
5-Steps to AI Readiness
Perform a comprehensive data profiling analysis
1 . SCAN
on key data sets to determine the AI-readiness of
START your project.
Assess data integrity, completeness, accuracy,
and schema alignment to ensure the foundation is
solid for downstream AI models
Utilize autogenerated artifacts like data dictionaries, AI-domain
CATALOG
dictionaries, and code inventories to shift time and cost from data
cleaning and transformation to building models.
Ensure metadata management, data lineage, and data
discoverability for quick access and efficient model development.
Review hundreds to thousands of actionable findings preventing AI-
DISCOVER
readiness, such as data integrity issues, data loss, mismatches,
and performance bottlenecks.
Document and prioritize insights for data standardization,
normalization, and optimization.
Recognize best practices to enhance AI readiness and understand
LEARN
why the identified issues are problematic.
Explore strategies like data partitioning, compliance (e.g., GDPR,
HIPAA), and data security to meet AI governance standards.
IMPROVE Leverage suggested changes to configurations, tables, columns,
indexes/keys, and code that are hampering your AI-readiness.
Implement indexing optimization, schema restructuring,
and performance tuning to achieve a scalable and efficient AI-
ready system.
AI READY
680 S Cache Street
info@dataopus.com
Suite 100-14672
www.dataopus.us
Jackson, WY 83001

Benefits to every AI Project
Reduce time to implement effective and ethical AI solutions
Eliminate 99% of effort to know AI readiness
Uncover hidden problems
More clean, complete, and reliable data
Greater performance
Drive down manual efforts for harvesting, cleaning, preparation,
and transformation
Increased comprehension of data collection
Actionable findings, plans, risks, and issues
Suggestive fixes
Decreased errors and omissions
Better assurance to AI fairness (Ethical AI)
Cut cloud spend
680 S Cache Street
info@dataopus.com
Suite 100-14672
www.dataopus.us
Jackson, WY 83001