 Mehmet Oz, MD Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, Maryland 21244 -1850 Thomas Keane, MD, MBA Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC) Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 Submitted electronically at: https://www.regulations.gov RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem [CMS- 0042- NC] Greetings: Franciscan Alliance appreciates the opportunity to submit our feedback on the Health Technology Ecosystem. Franciscan continues to support patients access to and control of their health records. We also recognize ASTP/ONC efforts to lead infrastructure progress to cultivate this market, increasing beneficiary access to effective digital capabilities needed to make informed health decisions, and increasing data availability for all stakeholders contributing to health outcomes. A trusted leader in providing faith -based, integrated health care, Franciscan Alliance brings together the latest technology, innovative procedures and the brightest, most compassionate people to serve our patients in Indiana and Illinois throughout our 11 hospitals and in many medical practices with over 1000 physicians. C. Providers PR-3 . How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage format (for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes, structured data fields)? Please address all of the following: a. Current c hallenges in accessing d ifferent data formats i. Healthcare data is stored in various formats, including structured databases (lab results), unstructured text (clinical notes), and scanned/faxed documents. Challenges include: • Data silos: Different EHR systems use incompatible formats. • Unstructured data: Free- text notes are difficult to integrate. • Legacy systems: Older platforms don’t support modern standards. • Security & compliance: HIPAA and other regulations require careful handling, making accessibility more complex. b. Impact on patient care quality 
i. Access to key record data across organizations can serve to enhance patient care quality. However, bulk -sharing of all data may overwhelm care teams and inadvertently impair care quality by adding to clinicians’ cognitive burden. c. Technical b arriers to f ull data accessibility i. Lack of standardization: Some systems use proprietary formats, preventing smooth data exchange. ii. Integration complexity: Connecting diverse platforms requires Application programming interface ( API) development, Natural language processing (NLP ), and interoperability frameworks. iii. Identity matching : Patient data may not be accessible across organizations due to inability to assure identity matching with high confidence. Adoption of a globally unique patient identifier would assist with re ducing these barriers. d. Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable i. Cost considerations: • Transitioning legacy systems to interoperable platforms is expensive. • Data conversion and AI-driven processing need investments in infrastructure. • Hospitals and small clinics may face budget and/or resource constraints in implementing interoperability solutions. e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs i. Expanding accessibility raises cybersecurity risks ( i.e., data breaches , unauthorized access). Making all data formats interoperable is vital but must be balanced with cost, privacy, and technological feasibility. We respectfully recommend that the ONC consider a more measured approach to continuously increasing regulations and requirements by prioritizing a select number of initiatives that offer clear and practical value to providers and the patients they serve, and are attainable by organizations who must strive to meet the regulatory burden. By focusing on a core set of meaningful and achievable advancements, the ONC can help reduce administrative burden while enabling clinicians to devote more attention to direc t patient care and ultimately advancing our shared goal of improved health outcomes. Franciscan supports exploration of the Health Technology Ecosystem and appreciates your consideration of the provider’s voice . If you have any questions about our comments or would like more information, please contact any of the resources listed below at the email addresses provided or (317) 532 -7800. Sincerely, Dick Roskam, MD Chief Medical Information Officer dick.roskam@franciscanalliance.org Joe Schnecker, MD Medical Director Informatics joseph.schnecker@franciscanalliance.org 
Lisa Yates , MIS, BSN, RN , NI-BC, PMP Carrie Kooy, MSN, RN Caryn Muirhead, BSN, RN eRegulatory Compliance Department ISERC@franciscanalliance.org 