eo.

HEALTHCARE ABUNDANCE.

“© DELIVERED.

Hippocratic Al - Who We Are

Hippocratic Al is a pioneer in the development
of safety-focused generative Al healthcare
agents designed for patient-facing, non-
diagnostic tasks. Our mission is bold but
simple: achieve healthcare abundance,
improving outcomes, and reducing strain on
the system through carefully designed,
Clinically safe Al agents.

Our foundational principle is embedded in our
name: Do No Harm. Everything we build
prioritizes patient safety and efficacy above alll
else. That’s why we built the industry's first and
patented safety constellation architecture -
Polaris 3.0 - tested and validated through our
network of 6,234 U.S. licensed clinicians

Maria Joseph Nina
Health Risk Assessment Disaster Response Measles Vaccination Campaign

Ben Amber Khadija
Chronic Care Management and HEDIS. Colorectal Screening Outreach Diabetes Psychosocial Screening &
Support Education
Corporate Creator: Adtalem
Hippocratic Al Hippocratic Al fe P A

Choose From Our 1,000+ GenAl Healthcare Agents

Safety Focused Generative Al Agents Built for Enterprise Scale

The healthcare system faces growing pressure: an aging population, staffing shortages, and rising
costs are making access harder just as demand surges. Many communities, especially rural and
underserved, lack timely access to care, education, and follow-up. Hippocratic Al closes this gap

with safety-focused agents that augment clinical teams by handling routine, non-diagnostic
conversations that consume valuable staff time.

Delivering Real World Results

L85M*+ 25+ sss

Patient Calls Made Partners

Palo Alto, CA
CONTACT: Sales@HippocraticAl.com
LEARN MORE: HippocraticAl.com

QO5+ Deployed fe) ] High Patient
Use Cases Satisfaction

Hear our
Al Agents
in action


Our Generative Al Healthcare Agent Superpowers

Limitless Time: Engages for as long as
necessary to achieve a clinical objective

CB while making meaningful and impacting i
connections.
Inference and Concept Recognition: Ch
“ . wit +55
Can “read between the lines” in a

«,

conversation with patients, which opens
the door to more meaningful

connections and insights that can guide
future engagements or escalations. (é]

Commercial Off-the-Shelf Technology

Hippocratic Al

— Do No Harm —

-

Multi-Call Memory: Retrieves elements of
prior conversations to ensure continuity
throughout the patient/member journey.

Super Staffing & Scalability: Rapidly scales
to conduct outreach to massive numbers
of patients or health plan members.

Multi-Lingual: Currently speak 15+
languages, including English, Spanish,
French, and Vietnamese.

Polaris 3.0 is a patented 4.2 Trillion Parameter suite of 22 LLMs. The safety constellation architecture is a
modular, redundant, and yet flexible system to cater to patient safety at the highest level.

@
Q ®

Overdose Escalati

Frimary Model ; Secondary Tertiary Quaternary Quinary
Labs & Vitals Safety Safety safety safety
Supervisor Deep Thinking i i
Models Models
Form Fill /

Clinical evidence
= Documentation 1.85M patient calls
=9 | clinicians

Off-Label ‘.
(Pharma) Multi-Call 307,038
Memory calls so far
Safety Focused Generative
Al for Healthcare

And Il More

Nutrition
Supervisor

a
“K/
Models

-_—"

Polaris 3.0 is the safest healthcare LLM for
patient-facing clinical tasks, achieving a
clinical accuracy rate of 99.38%.

Primary Main Model

19 Supervisor Models

2 Deep Thinker Models

Clinical Validation

Patient Validation

0900090

Delivering Value Across the Healthcare Ecosystem

Partnering with Hippocratic Al means gaining access to a safe, scalable, and customizable workforce of genAl

agents that can perform tasks, otherwise, never thought possible.

© Expanding access through proactive outreach, education, and public health initiatives.

@© Reaching underserved populations to close care gaps, improve outcomes, and boost engagement.

© ®® ®©

Palo Alto, CA

Driving early identification and intervention to lower costs, raise quality scores, and enhance outcomes.
Scaling assessments, screenings, eligibility checks, and clinical trial recruitment.
Strengthening disaster preparedness and delivering rapid, localized outreach.

Enabling inclusive communication with multi-lingual generative Al agents.

CONTACT: Sales@HippocraticAl.com LEARN MORE: HippocraticAl.com
