Point32Health
1 Wellness Way
Canton, MA 02021
point32health.org
June 16, 2025
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Secretary
Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, S.W.
Washington, DC 20201
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
On May 16, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released a Request for Information
soliciting information regarding improving access to digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries as
well as the state of the broader health technology infrastructure. We believe there is significant
opportunity to advance technology as well as streamline and better align regulations in a manner that
advances optimal patient experience while reducing healthcare costs.
Who We Are
Point32Health is a leading health and well-being organization, delivering an ever-better healthcare
experience to everyone in our communities. Building on the quality, nonprofit heritage of our founding
organizations, Tufts Health Plan and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, we leverage our experience and
expertise to help people find their version of healthier living through a broad range of health plans and
tools that make navigating health and wellbeing easier.
Our programs take a 360-degree view of health for our members -- no matter their age, health, identity,
or income. Our Foundation works with communities to support, advocate, and advance healthier lives for
everyone and our Institute works to improve population health. We use empathy to understand what’s
important to those we serve, always making their priorities our own. We work to guide and empower
people by bringing together wide-ranging partners and perspectives to create new approaches that make
a real difference for both our industry and our 2.2 million members across the United States. We are
proud that our Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Commercial Combined HMO, PPO and POS plans in
Massachusetts and Maine, our Exchange HMO plans in Massachusetts and Maine, as well as Tufts Health
Plan’s Medicaid and Exchange HMO plans, have received full Health Equity Accreditation from the
National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). We are consistently a highly rated Medicare
Advantage plan. For eight years, from Star Year 2016 to Star Year 2023, our Tufts Medicare Preferred
HMO plan received a 5-star rating from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the highest rating
possible.
We are proud that Point32Health was recently recognized for the fourth time and the third year in a row
as one of the 50 most community-minded companies in the nation by Points of Light, the world’s largest
nonprofit dedicated to volunteer service. A national standard for corporate citizenship, the Civic 50
showcases how leading companies are incorporating social impact, civic engagement, and community
integration into their practices and values.

Overview of Our Comments
We appreciate that in the recent RFI, CMS has committed itself to policies that “reduce barriers to data
access and exchange, realize the potential of recent innovations in healthcare that promote better health
outcomes, and accelerate progress towards a patient centric health system.“ It was also helpful to see
CMS specifically query if there is a role for CMS to advance adoption of digital health technology. We also
recognize that throughout the RFI, there was a solicitation on ways to reduce provider burden.
In the attached appendix we provide detailed comments on how CMS can accomplish these goals. We
recommend that CMS:
I. Implement a Central Assessment Database for Digital Therapeutics (DTx) as well as a CMMI
Model to Optimize Use: Leveraging digital health products creates an opportunity to expand
access to treatments for chronic disease, behavioral health and other areas. However, there are
several obstacles to this pathway. First and foremost: Payers, clinicians and patients must be
confident in the efficacy of a digital health product. The sheer number of products makes this
impossible for a typical clinician and patient as well as extremely costly for regional health plans.
While some digital products have been developed using rigorous methods and evaluated through
randomized clinical trials, others lack foundational rigor. Sifting through an ocean of potential
products to find the clinical “pearls” is a laborious process. We recommend the federal
government establish an easily searchable database that includes critical elements regarding
digital therapeutics (DTx), including the results – or absence – of clinical trials. The database
would identify certain products with an “E-Healthy” icon (e.g. ones that meet certain clinical
evidence and other standards). We also recommend that CMMI launch a model where Medicaid
and Medicare Advantage plans are incentivized to integrate the use of certain “e-healthy” digital
therapeutic products into primary care provider (PCP) practices and emergency room discharges.
For instance, while stabilizing patients, many emergency rooms realize the patients also have
behavioral health issues (e.g. alcoholism). Through this CMMI program, ERs could enroll exiting
patients in appropriate DTx therapies, instead of leaving with only a list of recommended clinics
where appointments are likely to be difficult to obtain. Similarly, PCPs could be supported to
enable them to enroll patients struggling to manage their chronic disease into DTx dedicated to
diabetes, asthma or other chronic disease patients.
II. Reduce Provider Burden and Administrative Costs through Enhanced Electronic Medical Record
(EMR) Accessibility: Despite the fact that the vast majority of Medicare providers have invested in
electronic health records, provider administrative burden remains significant and problematic.
The positive potential of EHR adoption has been undermined because remote access to EHRs
usually isn’t granted to payors at all, or only at an additional cost. In some cases, this is because
the EHR vendors require providers to purchase additional licenses if payors are allowed to
remotely access the EHR. As a result, providers must continue to use faxes and other outdated
modes to communicate to health plans. This is unfortunate, as most of the abrasion providers
experience in the prior authorization process – the back and forth via phone and fax regarding
payor requests for additional information – could immediately be avoided if payors were simply
given remote access to the EMR. This is possible today, with virtually no additional technology
enhancements by providers or payors. We recommend the federal government update its
2

current Certified Electronic Health Record (EHR) Technology (CEHRT) to require EHR vendors to
allow providers to grant remote access to payors without an additional fee, and for providers to
do so, for treatment, payment and health care operations as defined by HIPAA.
III. Streamline Regulatory Deadweight to Unburden Payor Technology Budgets: Insurers are
regulated by numerous Agencies of the Federal Government – and even within HHS, individual
departments have differing priorities. Ultimately, most of these regulations drain the budgets of
payor technology departments. This means that payors must allocate scarce technology
resources to initiatives that their members neither want nor ultimately use. For instance,
individual health plans spent millions of dollars implementing the Medicare Prescription Payment
Plan (MPPP). At this time, member participation is less than 1%, according to estimates by
Milliman. This is especially problematic for regional not for profit health plans. According to
MedPAC, “plan-reported margins vary by a plan’s tax status and whether a plan is a SNP. In the
2022 data, nonprofit plans reported a margin of 0.1 percent….” To liberate technology resources
for member demanded services that actually improve healthcare, we urge the Administration to
a. Use Technology to Improve RADV and the Medicare Risk Adjustment Program
b. Synthesize Transparency Rules
c. Proactively Defend Private Sector Entities and Streamline Cybersecurity Regulations
The healthcare environment presents increasingly complex challenges as we strive to maintain
affordability, improve health outcomes, and comply with evolving regulatory expectations. We appreciate
this important initiative by the federal government. We believe the recommended adjustments outlined
below will support the dual goals of improving quality of care while advancing operational sustainability
and rationalizing healthcare expenditures.
Thank you for considering our perspectives on these important issues. We look forward to continued
collaboration to advance a stable, affordable, and accessible healthcare system. Please contact
Christina.Nyquist@Point32Health.org if we can provide additional assistance.
Sincerely,
Christina Nyquist
Vice President, Federal Affairs
3

Appendix
I. Implement a Central Assessment Database for Digital Therapeutics (DTX) as well as a CMMI Model
to Optimize Use (PC-5, PC-6, PC-7, VB-1): Leveraging digital health products creates an opportunity
to expand access to treatments for chronic disease, behavioral health and other areas. However,
there are several obstacles to this pathway. First and foremost, payers, clinicians and patients must
be confident in the efficacy of a digital health product. The sheer number of products makes this
impossible for a typical clinician and patient as well as extremely costly for regional health plans.
While some digital products have been developed using rigorous methods and evaluated through
randomized clinical trials, others lack foundational rigor. Sifting through an ocean of potential
products to find the clinical “pearls” is a laborious process.
Recommendations: We recommend the federal government:
a) Create a Digital Therapeutics Transparency Advisory Board (D-TAB): We believe a
foundational action would be for the federal government to establish a Digital Therapeutics
Transparency Advisory Board (D-TAB). This advisory board would include representatives
from clinicians (including hospitals, family physicians, and psychologists), public payors
(including Veterans Affairs, Health and Human Services and state Medicaid programs), the
digital therapeutics industry, patient groups (including senior citizens and veterans),
underserved communities (including representatives of racial minorities and rural areas),
and private payors (including regional and not for profit health plans).
A necessary step towards transparency would be recognizing the different levels of digital
categories nested within each other. The largest of the categories is digital health which
includes a variety of wellness trackers, telehealth platforms, diagnostics, and other digital
tools. Within this large category lies a smaller subset known as Digital Therapeutics (DTx).
These products are specifically designed to treat, manage, or prevent a disease with
software as the primary intervention method. They may be used independently or in
conjunction with drugs, devices, or other therapies to optimize patient outcomes. DTx
products should comply with best practices to ensure product integrity, incorporate user-
centered design, protect patient privacy, and have validated clinical outcomes via
randomized controlled trials and real-world evidence. It is critical for D-TAB to use a
definition of digital therapeutic (DTx) which appropriately applies a higher level of rigor and
clinical evidence than for products in the larger digital health space.
The Digital Therapeutics Transparency Advisory Board (D-TAB). should have three primary
roles: the establishment of a transparent database of clinically effective digital therapeutics;
advising CMMI on the development of a digital CMMI model; and publishing an annual
report on real-world evidence on digital health.
b) Transparent Database: First, D-TAB should design and develop a transparent, easily
searchable inventory of digital therapeutics that include the following searchable categories:
4

i. Conditions (e.g. depression, schizophrenia, anxiety, bipolar disorder, dementia,
substance use disorder, etc.) the therapeutic is designed to manage.
ii. Size of Randomized Controlled Trial (if D-TAB chooses to expand database beyond
products with RCTs, then D-TAB should specify the minimum requirements of such
alternative evidence for safety and efficacy).
iii. Outcome of Randomized Controlled Trial (using D-TAB developed metrics described
below).
iv. Cultural Considerations and Language Options (e.g. Portuguese, Cantonese,
Mandarin, etc.).
v. Broadband required/not required.
vi. Equipment needs (phone, tablet, laptop, VR, wearable, etc.).
vii. Cybersecurity certifications.
viii. Findings from other independent evaluations (e.g. FDA, etc.).
ix. Compliance with HIPAA and other privacy standards.
x. Ability to collect health equity metrics.
xi. Savings estimates (e.g. clinical costs, administrative savings)
xii. Expanded access opportunities.
xiii. “E-Healthy” Recommendations: Products that meet the D-TAB recommendations
regarding clinical evidence, cybersecurity and privacy compliance should be labeled
with an “E-Healthy” icon.”
xiv. Precautions: this section would provide warnings regarding contraindications for
specific digital therapeutics, information on recognized adverse events, etc.
xv. Target Populations: this section would provide information regarding which
populations are most suited for the product.
This database tool should be designed with a user experience that includes simple, high-level
information written in a patient friendly format. However, it also should include functionality
that enables medical professionals to obtain more technical findings in an equally accessible
manner.
D-TAB should establish a process that would assure the timely, ongoing updating of the
database. New therapeutics are emerging at a rapid pace, so the database should be updated at
5

least quarterly. Initially limiting the database to therapeutics with a very high standard of
evidence – such as Randomized Controlled Trials – will also make launching and maintaining the
database more manageable
b) Digital CMMI Model: Second, the advisory board should advise the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI) on the establishment of a model where participating
Medicaid and Medicare Advantage plans would be reimbursed for integrating the use of “e-
healthy” designated digital therapeutic products into:
i. Primary Care: Health plans participating in the CMMI model would establish a
mechanism to educate PCP practices regarding “E-Healthy” digital therapeutic
options that meet specific efficacy standards, reimburse PCP staff for helping
patients initially enroll in effective digital therapeutics, and use “best practices” to
incorporate data from the digital product into ongoing treatment.
ii. Emergency Room Discharge Process: Health plans participating in the CMMI model
would educate emergency room staff regarding highly effective “E-Healthy” digital
therapeutics and implement reimbursement for staff to enroll appropriate patients
upon discharge.
iii. Other clinical care locations: In addition to primary care and ER discharge, D-TAB
should consider whether other clinical care settings should be incorporated as well.
For instance, perhaps endocrinologists should be incorporated to expand
enrollment of patients with diabetes or specialists responsible for patients with
other chronic medical conditions. D-TAB also should evaluate if certain licensed
clinicians – other than-physicians -- should be allowed to prescribe “E-Healthy”
digital therapeutics (e.g. psychologists, licensed social workers, etc.)
c) Real-World Evidence on Digital Health Report: D-TAB should recommend specific real-
world data metrics that participating CMMI payors would collect regarding digital product
usage by patients and the associated health outcomes. This real-world evidence would be
published and utilized to further refine the digital model and best practice
recommendations. Health equity metrics would be part of this report.
d) Other Responsibilities: In their advisory capacity for a digital CMMI model, D-TAB should
also make recommendations regarding:
i. Conditions and Efficacy Metrics: D-TAB would specify the conditions where digital
therapeutics should be leveraged. We recommend the advisory panel NOT limit the
conditions to behavioral health only. As described above, there is a strong interplay
between physical health and behavioral health. Therefore, we recommend that
digital therapeutics effective at treating physical conditions such as diabetes should
be included. D-TAB should recommend evaluation criteria for digital therapeutics
designed for different condition categories. For instance, the appropriate metric for
a diabetes product might be improvement in A1c levels. DTx products that meet D-
6

TAB’s recommendations regarding clinical efficacy, cybersecurity and other
standards should be clearly demarcated in the database as “E-Healthy” products.
These “E-Healthy” products would be the only ones covered in the CMMI digital
model and where participating payors and providers would be reimbursed for
“prescribing” to patients.
ii. Underserved Populations: The advisory board should make recommendations on the
best way to assure low-income individuals are able to access “E-Healthy”
therapeutics. For instance, CMMI may reimburse payors for having case managers
assist members in applying to governmental programs that subsidize cell phone
costs, broadband or perhaps to directly provide “health only” tablets whose only
available apps are health-related ones prescribed by their clinician team.
iii. Best Practices: D-TAB should recommend best practices for onboarding of patients
with digital products, clinician use of digital data (recognizing the limited time
availability of primary care and other clinical practices), and other areas to optimize
patient outcomes in the most efficient manner.
iv. Codes: D-TAB should coordinate with other coding stakeholders to make
recommendations to assure that the full spectrum of care associated with the use of
digital therapeutics have appropriate codes available
II. Reduce Provider Burden and Administrative Costs through Enhanced Electronic Health Record
(EHR) Accessibility (PC-8 PR-2, PR-3, PR-7, PR-12, PR-13, PA-5, TD-9, TD-11): In 2020, the federal
government established that if providers fail to adopt certified electronic health record (EHR)
technology (CEHRT), Medicare can reduce their payment levels. Despite the fact that over 88% of
Medicare providers have invested in electronic health records, provider administrative burden
remains significant and problematic. The positive potential of EHR adoption has been undermined
because remote access to EHRs usually isn’t granted to payors at all, or only at an additional cost. In
some cases, this is because the EHR vendors require providers to purchase additional licenses if
payors are allowed to remotely access the EHR. As a result, providers must continue to use faxes
and other outdated modes to communicate to health plans. This is unfortunate, as most of the
abrasion providers experience in the prior authorization process – the back and forth via phone and
fax regarding payor requests for additional information – could immediately be avoided if payors
were simply given remote access to the EMR. This is possible today, with virtually no additional
technology enhancements by providers or payors. Providers and EHR vendors just need to make the
EHR remote access available without additional licensing fees. The Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy rules already apply to payers, and patient data would remain
secure.
Recommendation: This could be accomplished very quickly if CMS were to update the CEHRT
standards. We recommend that in order to be considered as using certified health record
technology:
7

a) the EHR vendors must allow payor organizations to remotely access a provider’s EHR for
treatment, payment and healthcare operations as defined by HIPAA, without the imposition
of additional fees onto the provider client or the payor entity.
b) the provider licensing the EHR must allow payor organizations to access a provider’s EHR for
treatment, payment and healthcare operations as defined by HIPAA, without the imposition
of additional fees onto the payor entity.
This will decrease administrative costs as it will reduce provider burden in numerous interactions
with health plans. With regard to prior authorization, doctor offices would no longer receive routine
faxes or phone calls requesting additional patient data after an initial prior authorization is
submitted. Instead, the insurer’s case management nurses would remotely access the patient’s
record to locate the data in question and then approve the prior authorization. Additional data
access significantly expedites the approval of a prior authorization submission. Mandatory remote
access to EHRs would decrease provider burden in other areas as well. For instance, as part of the
risk adjustment process (in both commercial ACA and Medicare Advantage), payers require
additional “chart” information from providers. Remote EHR access would reduce current provider
burden involved in manually copying and sending such information. Similarly, doctors must provide
quality information data to health plans for STAR ratings in Medicare Advantage. Remote EHR
access would improve this situation as well.
III. Streamline Regulatory Deadweight to Unburden Payor Technology Budgets (TD-19, PR-7, TD-17):
Insurers are regulated by numerous Agencies of the Federal Government – and even within HHS,
individual departments have differing priorities. Ultimately, most of these regulations drain payor
technology budgets. This means that payors must allocate scarce technology resources to initiatives
that their members neither want nor ultimately use. For instance, individual health plans spent
millions of dollars implementing the Medicare Prescription Payment Plan (MPPP). At this time,
member participation is less than 1%. This is especially problematic for regional not for profit health
plans. According to MedPAC, “plan-reported margins vary by a plan’s tax status and whether a plan
is a SNP. In the 2022 data, nonprofit plans reported a margin of 0.1 percent….” These narrow
margins provider little room for unnecessary or suboptimal technology expenditures. To liberate
technology resources for member demanded services that actually improve healthcare, we urge the
Administration to
a) Synthesize and Consolidate Transparency Requirements (TD-19): We support transparency
and the ability of patients to make informed choices when selecting providers and
procedures. However, currently, health plans are impacted by numerous existing or
imminent transparency-related regulations including: the RXDC report, the Transparency in
Coverage Cost Estimator, Machine-Readable Files for Medical Information, Machine
Readable Files for Drugs, Interoperability 1.0 and 2.0, and the Advanced Explanation of
Benefits (AEOB). Implementation of and ongoing compliance with these regulations are
costly and some of these overlapping provisions are not necessary to achieve transparency.
The significant expenditures in these areas is frustrating, given there has been little uptake
in many of these areas, including the use of machine-readable files on which each health
plans spent millions of dollars implementing.
8

We urge the federal government to conduct a holistic review of all transparency related
regulations and synthesize a single cohesive and cost-effective framework that provides
transparency to members. Part of this should be requiring the correct entity to provide
transparency. For instance, with regard to any drug information – transparency
requirements should be imposed on the PBM or the pharmaceutical manufacturer – not the
health plan. Health plans lack complete access to drug pricing and other related information
as much of this is considered proprietary by PBMs and housed in their systems only.
Another example is the AEOB rule. The AEOB regulation has not yet been promulgated.
Instead of creating a completely new process for health plans to implement, we urge the
Administration to consider the transparency tools that already have been developed. There
are two previously launched initiatives that could be leveraged to execute the new AEOB
requirements.
• First, every health plan already publishes extensive machine-readable files on
the negotiated costs for medical services with their health plan. These files have
largely been unused by the public.
• Second, the federal government has launched the National Plan and Provider
Enumeration System (NPPES), which is publicly accessible. It is a system
administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to assign
unique identifiers, called National Provider Identifiers (NPIs), to healthcare
providers.
The federal government could explore combining these two initiatives to execute the AEOB.
The NPPES portal could be expanded to allow providers to initiate a patient request for an
AEOB. This government system could then access the machine-readable files already
published to the cloud to generate a personalized AEOB for the patient. This would be an
efficient implementation of AEOB because, rather than each individual health plan designing
and funding individual portals (and providers being frustrated from multiple access points),
the federal government would create a single AEOB point and leverage existing machine-
readable file infrastructure. This government-led combination would be more uniform, less
expensive, and would increase compliance while furthering the administration’s goal of
transparency. In addition, this would help reduce the likelihood that regulation writers
would significantly underestimate the cost of their regulations because the federal
government would be responsible and could not simply shift these tremendous costs onto
the private sector.
b) Proactively Defend Private Sector Entities from Cyber Warfare and Streamline
Cybersecurity Regulations: An expensive, recurring, and increasing issue in the healthcare
industry is ransomware attacks. Highly sophisticated and organized entities, sometimes
funded by foreign governments, attack hospitals, health plans, and other healthcare
stakeholders and threaten to expose patient information if a ransom is not paid. In a recent
year, there were 181 confirmed ransomware attacks on healthcare providers with an
average ransom payment of $900,000 per attack, resulting in a total of $162.9 million paid
in ransoms. In 2024, Change Healthcare paid a $22 million ransom to prevent the release of
9

stolen data, only for the attacker to provide the stolen data to another group who then
attempted to extract a further ransom payment. In addition to ransom payments, there are
many other costs related to healthcare cyberattacks: recovery efforts, legal fees,
communications, etc. Change Healthcare’s parent company, UnitedHealth Group, confirmed
that losses in 2024 due to the attack had risen to $2.9 billion. In 2023, the cost of all
combined healthcare data breaches due to cyberattacks was estimated at $7.93 billion.
At the same time, we are concerned that federal agencies have begun to issue rules that
differ from other agencies as well as industry gold standards such as the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF). Currently, health plans
must abide by standards and regulations which conflict and overlap, such as Sarbanes-Oxley,
HIPAA, etc. Additionally, most states have their own unique cybersecurity regulations that
can conflict with or duplicate federal regulations, creating even more administrative burden
for health plans. It is important to focus stakeholder financial resources on optimizing their
technological defense, not on unnecessary administrative burdens. Streamlining and
consolidating federal cybersecurity requirements into a single comprehensive framework
can reduce administrative costs, improve efficiency, and enhance incident response. The
two most recent examples of problematic regulatory over-reach include:
i. Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act: The Cyber Incident
Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act (CIRCIA) rule’s requirements for reporting
cyber incidents would force health plans to report any cyber incident multiple times,
when they are already required by other agencies to do so. All health plans are
required by HIPAA to report these incidents; they are then bound by CIRCIA to go
through the same process with a different agency, all while dealing with a
cybersecurity incident. This duplicative and unnecessary reporting requirement
diverts important resources away from critical incident response activities and
forces health plans to put those resources into administrative reporting.
ii. Office of Civil Rights (OCR) HIPAA Security Rule Modifications NPRM: While we
support the necessity of adaptation and dynamism in cybersecurity regulation, we
are concerned that the proposed revision of the HIPAA Security Rule would impede
an organization’s ability to bolster substantive cybersecurity technologies as it
would divert significant resources to unnecessary, confusing, and counterproductive
administrative requirements.
Recommendations: Instead of the CIRCIA rule’s approach, we urge the federal
government to designate a single “gold standard” for cybersecurity – such as NIST CSF
2.0. Each agency could require adoption or certification of compliance with the gold
standard, rather than promulgate its own regulations. Organizations who obtain
independent certification with these federal gold standards should be provided with a
safe harbor to be protected from class action lawsuits. Finally, there should be federal
incentives for state standards to be aligned with this gold standard. The federal
government should also create and manage a central reporting framework that allows
entities bound by reporting regulations to other federal agencies to only report once, to
10

which the information can then be shared between agencies. Finally, we urge that the
OCR HIPAA Security Rule notice of proposed rulemaking be withdrawn.
Furthermore, we urge the Administration to aggressively investigate, identify, and hold
accountable the criminal entities that are carrying out these crimes against private
businesses. These efforts should include investigating past cyberattacks on private
businesses aimed at recovering ransoms that have been paid by the victims of these
crimes. We also recommend the Administration take immediate steps to reduce the
potential profitability and, therefore, the incentive to commit these crimes. For
example, the Administration could implement regulations that would enhance the
traceability of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency transactions, and it could increase
efforts to police the “Dark Web” to identify individuals or entities that illegally publish
individually identifiable personal information. Private companies that are the victims of
these crimes suffer significant financial harm, which can result in closures and loss of
jobs. Often the victims are subject to extensive audits from federal and state agencies
while they are attempting to recover from these sophisticated cyberattacks. Rather than
spending significant resources re-victimizing the victims, the federal government should
be proactively working with private entities, including healthcare providers and insurers,
to share information and best practices to increase the country’s overall cybersecurity
posture.
c) Use Technology to Improve RADV and the Medicare Risk Adjustment Program (PR-7, TD-
17): We appreciate the Administration’s commitment to program integrity. We understand
the interest in Risk Adjustment Data Validation (RADV) audits. Medicare Advantage plans
must be good financial stewards in providing critical Medicare benefits. However, the
current RADV audit system is unnecessarily administratively burdensome and inefficient at
policing plan practices. As such, the current program is unnecessarily costly to the federal
government while its administrative costs disproportionately hurt not for profit health plans
who are less able to amortize the significant expenditures. The following suggestions would
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of RADV audits and the risk adjustment program
overall.
i. Automate Prevention of Questionable Coding Practices: The federal government
currently focuses only on “retroactively” trying to “catch” problems. Many of these
could be proactively prevented in the first place. The federal government could
calibrate Encounter Data Processing System (EDPS) filtering logic so that it would
“reject” plan submission of records or codes that CMS identifies as likely to be
erroneous. For example, when a physician office visit includes an acute stroke code
– without a corresponding recent emergency or hospital inpatient claim – this is
likely a miscode documenting a history of stroke, rather than treatment of stroke.
This is a critical differential in risk adjustment payment. A filter could block
submission of codes in this scenario. This increases efficiency as it proactively
prevents overpayments on the front end -- rather than the government trying to
claw back costs through RADV audits. In addition, this is likely to save more dollars
11

that retroactive audits, as a filter would catch every one of these situations, whereas
an audit might not have a result as comprehensive.
ii. Streamline Data Collection for Quality Control: Despite the widespread adoption
of electronic medical records, many health plans who seek to exert quality control
over their risk adjustment practices are forced to conduct laborious manual reviews.
To aid health plans that seek to improve the accuracy of their risk adjustment,
providers should be required to make EMR data available for treatment, payment
and health care operations. EMR vendors and Health Information Handlers (HIH)
that contract with provider organizations to manager their medical charts should be
required to allow this remote access or provide the charts directly to the health plan
directly in a timely manner and without the imposition of additional costs. These
requirements should be part of an updated set of CERHT rules.
iii. Mitigate Gaming by Prohibiting Specific Practices: A more efficient approach then
massive RADV audits, would be to first prohibit specific practices that are likely to
enable gaming. Specifically, the federal government should:
1. Prohibit plans that have a stake in a risk adjustment vendor (i.e. subsidiary
that provides chart review services or in-home HRAs) from using those
companies in their own risk adjustment processes
2. Require that charts be reviewed for codes that should be deleted as well as
added. This is similar to requirements under the ACA Risk Adjustment
program and Edge Submission protocols.
3. For health plans that own provider entities, exclude profits from related
provider entities that revert to the parent or another parental subsidiary
from the health plan’s medical expenses when the related insured entity
submits its MLRs to CMS
4. Restrict Physician Incentives for Upcoding: For all health plans, restrict
providing payment contingent on providers certifying and reporting all the
codes proposed by health plan vendors.
5. Codify In-Home Assessment Best Practices: When a health plan sponsors an
in-home assessment, information collected must be provided to a primary
care provider. Information should trigger a patient care plan, if appropriate.
Diagnoses that are found only via an in-home assessment should be subject
to a secondary quality assurance review by a certified medical coder.
iv. Disseminate Best Practices for “Sentinel” Impact: The federal government should
clearly outline their position on best coding practices. Unfortunately, current coding
guidelines are vague in many areas and leave things to “judgement” of coders. As a
result, conservative health plans will voluntarily moderate those coding practices.
12

However, aggressive plans can defend their practices as within “judgement.”
Historically, the federal government has been leery to reveal audit criteria.
However, if the federal government did lay out more detail, they would impact a
much larger portion of the market. Instead of only catching the claims that happen
to be part of the audit – they would proactively influence a wide swath of the
marketplace. Even a “large” audit will be a relatively small portion of actual claims
processed.
v. Target RADV Audits to Optimize Recoupments: RADV audits require a significant
investment on the part of the federal government and are costly endeavors. Rather
than do this for every plan every year, CMS should target audits to plans that are
most likely to generate significant recoupments from the audit. These targets could
be identified by certain characteristics. For instance, MA plans that conduct chart
reviews should not just be submitting code additions that they find in charts. They
also should be submitting code deletions because chart reviews also should identify
codes that were in error. Any health plan whose addition submissions are
disproportionate to its deletions, should be identified for an audit. In addition,
audits could be targeted against with significant risk adjustment deviations from
industry average. For example, plans which have all three of the following
characteristics: a minimum number of lives or member months greater than or
equal to the specified level of credibility above a 1.0 normalized risk scorerisk score
growth above industry average, over a multi-year period
vi. Provide Sufficient Time for Audits: The recently-announced timeframe for the
Medicare Advantage RADV audits will be very problematic for health plans –
especially smaller plans that rely on relationships with independent providers.
Responsible health plans spend considerable time curing their risk adjustment data
for quality control. Because Medicare has been historically behind in its RADV
audits, many plans have not yet completed these reviews for more recent years
(e.g. 2022, 2023). We urge the Administration to allow plans additional time to cure
data for those years. In addition, we also encourage the Administration to recognize
that provider cooperation is critical for MA plans to complete quality control.
Therefore, we ask CMS to require providers make data available to health plans on a
timely basis. If they have electronic medical records, they should make that
available remotely to health plans (see above recommendation). If they lack EMRS,
then they should provide medical records within one week of the plan request at no
additional cost to the health plan. Moreover, if a health plan requests data but the
provider fails to provide on a timely basis, health plans should not “fail” samples for
which plans demonstrate best faith efforts to obtain records for but are not
successful in obtaining from providers.
vii. Include a Fee For Service Adjustor: When the federal government does conduct
RADV audits, we are concerned about the financial impact of extrapolating the
results. If the federal government does intend to use extrapolation, it is critical that
it utilize a “fee for service” adjustment against the error rate. It would be
13

inappropriate to hold the Medicare Advantage system to a higher standard than the
fee for service Medicare program. MA plans should only be held to the portion of
an error rate that exceeds the error rate of the traditional fee for service program.
14