February 20, 2026
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and the
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Attention: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: Docket No. HHS-ONC-2026-0001—Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence
as Part of Clinical Care
To Whom It May Concern:
As the leading authority on oral health in the United States, the American Dental Association (ADA)
submits the enclosed response to the request for information about accelerating the adoption and use
of artificial intelligence as part of clinical care, as outlined in the Federal Register notice of December
23, 2025 (90 FR 60108).
The American Dental Association, an ANSI-Accredited Standards Developer (ASD), leads national
and international efforts to advance dental standards that ensure the safety, reliability, and
effectiveness of dental products and technologies. The ADA is the only standards development
organization that represents the United States in international standardization, serving as the U.S.
Technical Advisory Group (TAG) Secretary to ISO Technical Committee 106 on Dentistry.
Additionally, the ADA contributes to global health informatics standards as Co-Secretary of the
systems and devices interoperability working group under ISO/TC 215 (Health Informatics).
Supported by more than 400 volunteer experts, the ADA Standards Program develops national and
international standards, specifications, and guidelines for products that promote oral health through
the application of information technology, interoperability, and innovation in dentistry’s clinical and
administrative operations. The ADA Standards Program has positioned itself as a leader in setting
standards for these new technologies in dentistry.
In 2022, the ADA Standards Program published the first white paper covering clinical and non-
clinical applications of AI in dentistry, which includes information about the current regulatory
environment. It followed by developing the first U.S. standard in AI in dentistry approved by the
American National Standards Institute. Additional AI- related standards, white papers, and technical
reports are forthcoming.
The ADA Forsyth Institute is collaborating with industry and academic partners to develop physics-
based digital twins, or high-fidelity, computational surrogates, that couple first-principles multiphysics
simulation with machine-learning–enabled parameter estimation and data assimilation. The platform
continuously ingests experimental data to calibrate model states and material parameters, forecast
performance under novel conditions, and solve inverse-design/optimization problems to recommend
formulations and processing conditions that achieve specified target properties. Supported by a five-
year award from the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR), the team is
deploying digital twins to accelerate the development of next-generation smart dental materials with
unprecedented performance. The award represents NIDCR’s first major investment in applying AI to
basic oral health research.

Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and the
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
February 20, 2026
Page 2
AI’s impact extends well beyond engineering and materials research. It is increasingly central to
accelerating biomedical discovery as well. At ADA Forsyth, scientists are using cutting edge AI/ML
toolkits to accelerate many important tasks such as guiding RNA/CRISPR design, drug discovery,
receptor-ligand binding, microbiome profiling, cell culture media formulation, next-generation
sequencing analysis, host-pathogen interactions, spatial transcriptomics, and integrative multi-omics
workflows with metapangenomics. These capabilities greatly compress what were historically
deliberate, resource-intensive cycles, by reducing the number of wet-lab iterations. As a result, ADA
Forsyth scientists can prioritize more high-value hypotheses, and shift discovery from largely intuition
driven, trial-and-error approach to also include predictive, data-driven experimentation.
We are pleased to enclose our detailed responses to some of the questions HHS has posed. We
respectfully offer the following considerations to help small businesses overcome hurdles preventing
AI adoption in the clinical space.
Thank you for providing the opportunity to comment. We look forward to working with HHS and other
agencies on any regulatory actions and grant opportunities that will help shape the use of AI in health
care. If you have any questions or wish to talk further, please contact Mr. David Linn at 202-789-5170
or linnd@ada.org.
Sincerely,
Richard J. Rosato, D.M.D. Elizabeth Shapiro, D.D.S., J.D., C.A.E.
President Interim Executive Director
RJR:EAS:rjb
Enclosure
A-2

ATTACHMENT A
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its adoption
and use in clinical care?
The American Dental Association has identified several primary barriers to private sector innovation and
adoption of AI technologies in clinical practice.
‑
Data heterogeneity in training data sets: Dental data sets are highly heterogeneous because electronic
dental records (EDRs) are designed and used differently than electronic medical records (EMRs). Most
EDRs focus on documenting procedures and visit-based details rather than capturing standardized
diagnostic information. As a result:
• Data are often recorded at very granular clinical levels, such as tooth, surface, or probing
site, but are not maintained by dental technology systems in consistent, structured formats
suitable for research or use for training algorithms.
• ANSI/ADA Standard No. 2000.8, SNODENT (Systematized Nomenclature of Dentistry), the
dental-specific diagnostic coding system, exists and is harmonized with SNOMED CT, but it
is not widely adopted in dentistry, further limiting standardization across providers and
systems.
• Procedure based documentation typically lacks structured detail on materials, methods,
duration, or complexity, contributing to fragmented and incomplete data.
‑
Heterogeneity in the underlying data may lead to unstable modeling, reduced accuracy, and poor
application performance. In dentistry, imaging data (radiographs, cone-beam CT, intraoral scans, and
photos) are among the most readily available and reliable sources of training data because they are
routinely, repeatedly, and longitudinally captured across patient encounters.1 Despite extensive imaging
availability, the predominance of non-standard or unstructured numerical and free text data introduces
significant variability and noise, thereby constraining the development, training, and generalizability of
advanced AI modeling pipelines. ‑
Data interoperability and exchange challenges: Dental data remains difficult to use for AI development
because it is often inaccessible, siloed, and stored in systems with limited interoperability. Electronic
records frequently exhibit low variable completeness. In addition, sampling bias arises when datasets
overrepresent specific populations, such as individuals who are sicker, healthier, or more affluent,
resulting in skewed input data. AI models trained on such data inherit these biases, limiting their fairness,
reliability, and generalizability.2
Limitations of dental claims data for research and development: The utility of training AI models on
dental claims datasets may initially seem appealing; however, these claims systems are designed for
benefit administration and rule-based plan design, not for capturing the clinical complexity of oral disease
or treatment. The information contained within even large “all-payer” databases is inherently narrow and
poorly aligned with data required for AI-driven clinical decision support. It is critical to note the difference
between medical and dental claims data, in which dental data is typically collected and adjudicated based
on covered services rather than on documenting underlying conditions, disease severity, or treatment
complexity.
Data governance at scale: Data governance at scale to support AI innovation has yet to be realized.
Implementing standardized, secure, and automated processes would improve trust in data quality;
however, this cannot be managed through a fragmented policy and technology landscape. The current
environment of state specific privacy, disclosure, consent, and oversight rules which often have more
restrictions than federal privacy and security rules, forces AI developers to operate under the toughest
‑
1 Schwendicke, F., Samek, W., & Krois, J. Artificial Intelligence in Dentistry: Chances and Challenges. Journal of Dental Research,
2020; 99(7): 769–774. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022034520915714
2 Gianfrancesco MA, Tamang S, Yazdany J, Schmajuk G. 2018. Potential biases in machine learning algorithms using electronic
health record data. JAMA Intern Med. 178(11):1544–1547.
A-1

requirements, increasing operational complexity. Further, inconsistent data governance policies lead to
misunderstanding of responsibility for clinician and patient consent, transparency and privacy protections,
further blurring liability and malpractice accountability. These all compound as operational barriers to
adoption of AI tools in clinical practice such as:
• high costs associated with building and maintaining the infrastructure needed for system
implementation
• extensive training, and workforce development—challenges that are amplified by the ongoing
workforce shortage.
• unclear accountability increases legal and operational risk, much of which may fall upon dental
practices, particularly those that qualify as covered entities under laws such as HIPAA, the False
Claims Act, or Section 1157 of the Affordable Care Act.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to
incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or
programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please
provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
The American Dental Association recommends consideration of the following to incentivize the effective
use of AI in clinical care.
Strengthen dental data capture and reporting in federally funded programs: The ADA is encouraged
by continued engagement by the ASTP/ONC, CMS, and other federal agencies in the recognition of
dental-specific data, notably the inclusion of the Code on Dental Procedures and Nomenclatures (CDT) in
the Corrected Applicable Standard Reference for Procedures within USCDI v5. The ADA appreciates the
ASTP/ONC’s efforts to ensure that CDT maintains parity with other standard terminologies in the
procedures data element.
The ADA continues to pursue the inclusion of dental-specific data elements in those standards that
support administrative transactions and clinical care. The ADA supports ongoing efforts to improve the
recording of disease and diagnosis data within federally funded programs. To support these efforts, we
encourage HHS to consider incentivizing clinical documentation improvement activities and technology-
assisted disease management pilots for dental providers.
Incentivize modern technology infrastructure: Dentistry has not benefited from appropriations to
support electronic health record infrastructure development, a prerequisite for AI integration. We
encourage HHS to provide funding to support data exchange. Incentives are increasingly important to
support rural and small practices in adopting emerging AI technology meaningfully.
Establish external, independent validation of dental AI algorithms using synthetic data and
informatics standards: Small differences between training data and real-world conditions can produce
harmful errors. External, independent validation using industry-specific and trusted standards is critical.
The ADA is committed to developing foundational standards for validating interoperability and AI tools,
including the publication of terminology standards that define the vocabulary used in dentistry, data
structure and exchange standards that define data models to enable interoperable communication, and
content standards that define the data required to support administrative needs and clinical care. These
standards are critical to creating consistent, structured, high-quality datasets needed to build reliable AI
test data. Interoperability standards and gold-standard synthetic datasets are foundational to improving
trust in AI tools. The ADA supports public-private partnerships in ensuring the right standards and
synthetic gold standard datasets remain in place to support AI use.
3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise novel legal and
implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability structures (e.g.,
relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel legal and implementation
issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to help address them?
A-2

Standardize definition of “Non-Medical Devices”: A standardized definition of “Non-Medical Devices”
across agencies, organizations, and industry would provide the necessary foundation to define the need
for disclaimers, consent, privacy, and security oversight, as well as implications of telehealth requirements
based on the type of information exchanged and stored. This lack of consistency in definition widens the
gap in AI adoption, driven by liability concerns and implications for malpractice coverage.
Improve AI vendor accountability: Dental practices increasingly rely on third-party vendors for critical
systems, including electronic dental records (EDRs), imaging software, and appointment management
tools. The rapid expansion and availability of AI tools place significant responsibility on providers to not
only judge the validation and performance of these products but also to implement and maintain privacy
and cybersecurity measures, maintain oversight, and assess vendor reliability. Currently, there are gaps
in the federal regulatory space to assist providers when making such complex technology decisions. The
ADA recommends HHS consider establishing standardized requirements for labeling AI-based products
and tools designed to assist in improving trust and adoption, while strengthening shared decision-making
between clinicians and their patients.
Further, the ADA recommends that HHS strengthen HIPAA requirements and enforcement to make
vendors of electronic dental technology accountable for providing secure, compliant systems. Vendors
should be required to certify that their solutions meet HIPAA and industry security standards and include
features such as encryption and multi-factor authentication (MFA) as default configurations. By clarifying
the division of responsibilities between health care providers and software vendors, HHS can ensure that
practices have the tools and support necessary to meet compliance obligations without shouldering
disproportionate burdens. Furthermore, the ADA would support efforts to create simplified, standardized
templates for risk analysis and asset management, easing the burden on practices and ensuring
consistent compliance with privacy laws governing AI technology. Administrative tasks not supported by
practice management or health record systems are often performed through workaround applications that
may not require a business associate agreement, shifting compliance accountability to clinicians.
Strengthening guidance related to accountability for software systems and their role in privacy and data
protection issues will allow clinicians to consider AI adoption to improve efficiency in administrative tasks,
as well as to support clinical decision-making to improve care.
4. For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods (pre- and post-
deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and human-centered evaluation
methods for clinical care? Should HHS further support these processes? If so, which mechanisms
would be most impactful (e.g., contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and/or prize
competitions)?
Facilitate establishment of gold-standard synthetic data sets: To our knowledge, AI models are only
as good as the data used in their development. The ADA believes that establishing “gold-standard”
synthetic data sets based on real-world clinical and administrative data is key to evaluating new AI
models before they are applied to patient care. The evaluation framework should include criteria for
consistent performance and metrics to monitor bias while reinforcing transparency. For example, pre-
deployment evaluation should include external validation on multi-center datasets, calibration
assessment, bias analyses, and prospective studies to measure real-world performance without affecting
care. Post-deployment monitoring should include drift detection, version/change-control governance,
ongoing performance reporting, and structured recording and analysis of AI tool errors. The strongest
dental AI solutions ultimately function as clinical copilots, delivering measurable business impact while
reinforcing transparency, reliability, and clinician confidence.
Standards provide roadmaps for evaluating and integrating AI systems into dental practice by establishing
criteria for safety, efficacy, transparency and fairness. ADA Technical Report No. 1109, Dentistry –
Evaluation of Dental Image Analysis Systems Using Augmented/Artificial Intelligence defines consistent
performance and bias metrics enabling pre and post deployment evaluations and reporting.
5.How can HHS best support private sector activities (e.g., accreditation, certification, industry-
driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in clinical care?
A-3

Support public private partnerships to solve real world administrative burdens: Credentialing
remains one of the most administratively burdensome aspects of clinical operations, and AI tools offer a
meaningful path to improving the speed, consistency, and reliability of credentialing decisions.
Streamlining primary source verification and onboarding improves access to care and removes a barrier
for a clinician to seek timely employment opportunities. By supporting the development and responsible
adoption of such tools, HHS can reduce administrative burden, encourage innovation, and strengthen the
overall credentialing ecosystem. In fact, the ADA is actively collaborating with CAQH (supporting
standardized provider data collection) and with a new AI-based tool from LightSpun.ai (supporting
automated primary source verification across all 50 states) to offer an end-to-end AI based credentialing
solution for the dental industry. The ADA urges HHS to support public-private partnerships such as these
for effective AI use.
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care organizations have the
most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the primary administrative hurdles
to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
Support needs of small and rural practices when considering barriers and administrative hurdles
for AI adoption: Despite the potential benefits of AI, adoption across dental practices remains uneven,
particularly among small and mid-sized practices. Adoption decisions are most influenced by practice
owners/clinical leadership, in coordination with IT/informatics, compliance/privacy, and legal/risk
management—especially when regulatory status is unclear. The need for such coordination places undue
burden on small and rural practices. The primary administrative barriers to implementation are lack of and
the cost of current infrastructure to support implementation, high implementation costs, workforce
readiness limitations, inadequate interoperability with existing systems, regulatory uncertainty and
approval timelines, privacy concerns, unclear liability frameworks, malpractice implications and a lack of
standardized accountability in industry and performance benchmarks. For AI tools that fall within FDA’s
regulatory framework (e.g., certain diagnostic or decision-support functions), the regulatory
clearance/approval process can further add substantial time, cost, and uncertainty—affecting vendor
readiness, procurement timelines, and practices’ confidence in performance claims.
Upfront financial investment including expenses related to software, hardware upgrades, customization,
and ongoing maintenance poses a significant obstacle, especially when short term return on investment
(ROI) is uncertain. Workforce related challenges, such as limited training opportunities and the need for
workflow adaptation, further complicate adoption and may temporarily affect productivity.
Additionally, many AI technologies do not integrate seamlessly with existing electronic health records
(EHRs), imaging systems, or practice management platforms. Data security, privacy, and HIPAA
compliance concerns remain paramount. Unresolved questions regarding liability and accountability
when AI generated recommendations are used in clinical decision making further contribute to hesitancy
among dentists. Finally, inconsistent data standards and the absence of clear regulatory guidance limit
dentists’ ability to objectively assess AI tools.
8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and
accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types, data
standards, and benchmarking tools.
Oral health is fundamental to improving the health and well-being of all Americans. HHS can accelerate
integration of AI in care delivery and create durable market opportunities by establishing a practice
network that provides a federated, multi-site R&D and implementation platform to enable rigorous
evaluation and deployment of AI tools in real-work clinical workflows. The ADA’s leadership in standards,
data analytics and clinical guidance combined with the ADA Forsyth Institute’s deep scientific expertise
and translational research capacity along with participating clinical sites could provide scalable
operational environments to test implementation and workflow integration across clinical care sites under
A-4

consistent processes. To promote generalizable evidence generation, HHS could encourage alignment
with major health IT infrastructure and create opportunities for multi-site analyses and longitudinal
outcome assessments of de-identified, aggregated health data. ADA can facilitate collaborations to
operationalize the practice network to efficiently gather annotated training data and credible evidence.
This structure reduces redundant, one-off evaluations, improves data confidence, and creates a scalable
pathway from research validation to deployment in a cost-efficient manner.
Enhanced interoperability could unlock AI opportunities by creating large, diverse datasets, driving new AI
applications for personalized healthcare, diagnostics, and operational efficiency. Outstanding data quality
issues, due to non-conformance to standard data models and terminology, failures to adopt broader
healthcare informatics standards (e.g. DICOM®), and the proliferation of proprietary APIs in dental
technology, force the industry to rely on extensive mapping to standards-based APIs by costly third-party
data brokers. The ADA noted several areas for improvement in interoperability in comments to the FDA
re: Docket No. FDA–2025–N–0287: Exploration of Health Level Seven Fast Healthcare Interoperability
Resources for Use in Study Data Created From Real-World Data Sources for Submission to the Food and
Drug Administration; Establishment of a Public Docket; Request for Comments. We reiterate that the ADA
collaborates with HL7® by developing dental content and value sets for FHIR standards. Contributors to
these efforts include the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Department of Defense
(DOD), Indian Health Service (IHS), as well as private sector companies, to ensure that implementation
guide development aligns with priority information exchange guides such as CARIN, DaVinci, and other
federally mandated and recommended standards but remain dental centric. This synergy works to embed
dental-specific needs in the FHIR® data model, and ultimately makes dental data more readily available
for AI modeling.
The ADA is ready and willing to assist ASTP/ONC in developing a USCDI+ dental domain to further
support interoperability and facilitate AI development. We believe establishing a dental domain could
support agency-wide initiatives.
A-5