February 17, 2026
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
U .S. Department of Health and Human Services
Hubert H. Humphrey Building
200 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20001
Submitted electronically via http://www.regulations.gov
R e: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part
of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
On behalf of the American Society of Hematology (ASH), thank you for the opportunity to
comment on the Health and Human Services (HHS) Request for Information (RFI):
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) as Part of Clinical Care. The
Society appreciates HHS’ commitment to improve efficiencies within the health care system
through new technologies and innovation and commends the Agency for seeking input to
responsibly accelerate the adoption and use of AI in clinical care.
ASH represents more than 18,000 clinicians and scientists committed to studying and treating
blood and blood-related diseases. These disorders encompass malignant hematologic disorders
such as leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma, as well as classical (or non-malignant)
conditions such as sickle cell disease (SCD), thalassemia, bone marrow failure, venous
thromboembolism (VTE), and hemophilia. Hematologists have been pioneers in advancing the
understanding and treatment of various hematologic diseases. Hematologists continue to be
innovators in the fields of stem cell biology, regenerative medicine, transfusion medicine, and
gene therapy. ASH membership is comprised of basic, translational, and clinical scientists, as
well as physicians providing care to patients. Our mission is to foster high-quality care,
transformative research, and innovative education to improve the lives of patients with blood
and bone marrow disorders.
With these goals in mind, ASH recognizes the potential of AI tools to improve efficiencies,
streamline administrative processes, and provide additional clinical support to physicians.
Simultaneously, ASH members have emphasized the importance of responsible implementation
of these technologies; ensuring the patient-physician relationship remains central in care delivery,
emphasizing transparency in the underlying data and logic of AI tools to support their reliability
and validity in clinical care, and upholding the highest standards for data privacy and protection
of health information.
Specifically, ASH’s comments focus on the following themes: governance and transparency;
implementation and workflow; interoperability; clinician responsibility and patient trust.

Governance and Transparency
Regulations and guidance that support governance standards and transparency of AI models are critical for their safe
and effective use in clinical practice. ASH members consistently raise questions about how various AI tools are
regulated, especially as expectations grow for clinicians to use these tools in clinical care. Members have specifically
expressed concerns that the lack of standardized governance or transparency for the types of data used in AI models,
the frequency of data updates, and the underlying logic of predictive models and AI tools may lead to a “one-size-fits-
all” approach in AI tools. This approach may not be appropriate when these tools are used for complex or rare
conditions commonly found in hematology.
Several studies1,1,1,1 show significant and persistent inconsistencies in medical care and health outcomes among patients
across a range of blood disorders, underscoring the need for governance or standards for the reliability, validity, and
sensitivity of these tools to be applicable for the patient population for whom our members care. In prior ASH
comments, the Society has emphasized the importance of transparency as to the types of data used in AI models, the
frequency of data updates, and the underlying logic of predictive models and AI tools.
Meanwhile, individual health systems are developing and adopting their own internal best practices for governance
around the use of AI tools, leading to a patchwork of varying standards. This institution-by-institution approach
creates uncertainty about how AI should be evaluated for applicability and adopted across health systems.
ASH encourages HHS to establish clear definitions of the various classes of AI tools used in clinical practice and
develop a framework that specifies where and how different types of AI tools are appropriate for clinical use. ASH
also encourages the Agency to set clear regulatory expectations for the datasets and underlying logic used to build and
continuously validate AI models and tools. These standards will support clinicians and patients in understanding the
basis of these tools and support trust for broad implementation.
Implementation and Workflow
ASH members have shared that the greatest immediate potential of AI tools to improve efficiencies is through their
application in administrative tasks. For example, ASH members have shared that AI- enabled notetaking and ambient
listening tools may support provider efficiency in some instances within the electronic health record (EHR), allowing
physicians to focus on the interpretation and analyses of the patient’s health information.
However, while AI may reduce the burden of administrative tasks in some instances, it is important to recognize that
physicians have a finite capacity to incorporate and continuously monitor these tools alongside their many other
responsibilities. ASH members have described several experiences in which AI tools have “hallucinations” or provide
inaccurate information; hallucinations underscore the need for continuous monitoring or a human-in-the-loop to
ensure that clinical information in these tools remain accurate and clinically appropriate. Human oversight of these
tools is essential for their implementation, but the Society encourages HHS to carefully consider the workload
implications before placing this additional responsibility on physicians. Continuous monitoring of these tools should
not become an additional burden for physicians.
Interoperability
Many of these tools are already being incorporated as additions or extensions in EHR systems, often with new or
separate interfaces that require a different workflow with additional or parallel documentation. Duplicative work is an
additional burden on physicians, but importantly, this also raises questions about the interoperability of AI tools across
health IT systems. AI tools that cannot be cleanly embedded into existing EHR workflows or that rely on proprietary
integrations create barriers and disincentivize adoption and scalability. This can be especially challenging for smaller
or under-resourced community practices and institutions, such as those in rural areas, that may not have the resources
to support the integration of these tools.

ASH encourages HHS to develop a framework of interoperable standards for AI tools used across all types of clinical
practice and health systems, which will be key to support the integration and use of these tools across health care
systems.
Clinician Responsibility and Patient Trust
Lastly, successful implementation of AI tools in clinical practice must also be supported by patients. Maintaining
patient trust is foundational to preserving the patient-physician relationship, which is in turn central to ASH members’
ability to deliver high-quality and clinically appropriate care to patients with hematologic diseases and disorders. ASH
members have reported barriers to implementing AI tools in their clinic because patients have shown hesitancy with
AI being used for care delivery. Members noted that their patients cited privacy concerns, specifically about how their
protected health data is being stored and used.
ASH recommends that the Agency consider educational resources for both clinicians and patients to foster a shared
understanding of the purpose and use of AI tools in clinical care. Resources that help clinicians clearly communicate
how data are used and protected may help with patient trust and support more effective implementation.
ASH thanks HHS for the opportunity to provide these comments on AI in clinical practice. Should you have any
questions or require further information, please contact ASH Manager for Health Care Access Policy, Carina Smith
at casmith@hematology.org.
Sincerely,
Robert Negrin, MD
American Society of Hematology, President
1 Ioannis Farmakis, Mary Cushman, Luca Valerio, Nikolaos Giannakoulas, Lukas Hobohm, Gregory Piazza, Stavros Konstantinides, Stefano Barco; Social
Determinants of Health and Pulmonary Embolism Treatment and Mortality: The Nationwide Inpatient Sample. Blood 2022; 140 (Supplement 1): 343–344.
doi: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2022-166550
2 Arushi Khurana, Raphael Mwangi, Loretta J. Nastoupil, Patrick M. Reagan, Umar Farooq, Jason T. Romancik, Timothy J. McDonnell, Shaun M
Riska, Izidore S. Lossos, Brad S. Kahl, Peter Martin, Thomas E. Witzig, James R. Cerhan, Christopher R. Flowers, Matthew J. Maurer, Grzegorz S.
Nowakowski; Evaluating the Impact of Lab-Based Eligibility Criteria By Race/Ethnicity in Frontline Clinical Trials for Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
(DLBCL): A LEO Cohort Analysis. Blood 2022; 140 (Supplement 1): 2056–2058. doi: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2022-169433
3 Warren Fingrut, Stephanie Chinapen, Angela Katrichis, Caroline Carino, Eric Davis, Brian C. Shaffer, Christina Cho, Gunjan L. Shah, Juliet N. Barker;
Analysis of 372 Adult Allograft Recipients Reveals Associations between Non-European Ancestry, Low Socioeconomic Status, and Receipt of HLA-
Disparate Grafts. Blood 2022; 140 (Supplement 1): 313–314. doi: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2022-168486
4 Molly Tokaz, Helen Baldomero, Andrew J Cowan, Wael Saber, Hildegard T. Greinix, Mickey Koh, Nicolaus Kröger, Mohamad Mohty, Sebastian
Galeano, Shinichiro Okamoto, Naeem A. Chaudhri, Amado J Karduss, Fabio Ciceri, Vergilio Rensi Colturato, Selim Corbacioglu, Alaa M. Elhaddad, Lisa
Force, Cristobal Augusto Frutos Ortiz, Andres Gomez-De Leon, Nada Hamad, Nelson Hamerschlak, Naya He, Aloysius YL Ho, Xiao-Jun
Huang, Benjamin Jacobs, Heeje Kim, Minako Iida, Leslie E. Lehmann, Régis Peffault de Latour, Mary-Elizabeth M. Percival, Walid Rasheed, Kirk R.
Schultz, Adriana Seber, Bor-Sheng Ko, Anderson Simione, Alok Srivastava, Jeff Szer, William A. Wood, Yoshihisa Kodera, Arnon Nagler, John A
Snowden, Daniel J. Weisdorf, Jakob R. Passweg, Marcelo C Pasquini, Anna Sureda, Yoshiko Atsuta, Mahmoud Aljurf, Dietger Niederwieser, Martina
Perdomo; An Analysis of the Worldwide Utilization of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for Acute Myeloid Leukemia. Blood 2022; 140 (Supplement
1): 8146–8149. doi: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2022-158338