June 13, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC, P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Re: File Code CMS-0042-NC
To Whom It May Concern:
These comments are submitted on behalf of the National Organization of Social
Security Claimants’ Representatives (NOSSCR), a specialized bar association for
attorneys and advocates who represent Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI)
and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) claimants throughout the adjudication
process and in federal court.
Adopting effective and responsible technology to promote the seamless and secure
flow of health information will enable faster, more cost-effective, and more accurate
decision-making capabilities for government-wide adjudicative processes that rely
on medical records as a basis for determination. We thank you for the opportunity
to comment and submit the following for your consideration:
PC-1(a): What are the top things you would like to be able to do for you or
your loved ones' health that can be enabled by digital health products?
Given the proper permissions and protections, the seamless flow of electronic health
data is crucial for patient care and patient well-being, but it is also critical for
establishing eligibility under multiple government-provided support programs, such
as Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and Supplemental Security Income
(SSI), administered by the Social Security Administration (SSA).
SSA relies on a massive amount of health data to issue disability determinations.
Patients seeking the support provided by SSDI and SSI must demonstrate their
eligibility by providing their health data to the agency.
As the current RFI correctly summarizes, “although the building blocks for a
patient-centric digital health ecosystem are in place, the experience of most
patients, caregivers, and providers is neither seamless nor simple.” While some
patients have the capacity to navigate a complicated web of portals and forms to
obtain and submit this electronically available data, many do not. All too often, it is
1400 K Street NW, Suite 750 ● Washington, DC 20005 ● (202) 849-6466 ● nosscr@nosscr.org ● www.nosscr.org

the most vulnerable and most disabled individuals who must rely on help from
others to track down and submit this data on their behalf. These helpers might be
social workers, friends, family, or appointed representatives who aid disabled
individuals in gathering and submitting the needed health data to SSA.
Because of a loophole in the existing laws, these helpers are often not afforded the
“reasonable fee” protections offered by the 21st Century Cures Act. Instead, these
vulnerable patients’ helpers are charged hefty fees simply to obtain the needed
health data—fees that are ultimately passed on directly to the patient. In effect,
this is a “disability tax.” Because these patients are so disabled that they need
assistance from a helper, they must pay more for their required health data. This is
unconscionable.
With the proper protections and permissions in place, helpers should be able to
easily access the patient’s needed electronic health data to support a patient’s
application for public benefits at no cost to the patient.
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products
accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers,
particularly those with limited prior experience using digital tools and
services?
First, it is important to note that it is not only beneficiaries who need access to this
critical health data, but also applicants who are seeking to become beneficiaries.
Without proper access to health data, needing and deserving individuals are not
able to access the needed health data to prove their disability and thus eligibility for
Medicare to Social Security and CMS. So, these digital health products must be
available, not only to beneficiaries and caregivers, but also to those seeking to
become beneficiaries and the helpers that they need to navigate the cumbersome
application process.
Second, the digital health products must be free—not only for the patient, but also
for any properly authorized helpers who may need to access digital health data on
behalf of the patient.
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and
valuable to patients or their caregivers or both?
Currently, SSA utilizes Health Information Technology (Health IT) to partner with
274 organizations to digitally obtain health data needed for disability medical
determinations.1 Health IT is a direct exchange—it allows patients who have
authorized their providers to create the integration to provide needed data directly
to the agency. With the integration in place, the agency can quickly and easily
1 https://www.ssa.gov/hit/partners.html
- 2 -

obtain a patient’s health data from participating organizations, significantly
reducing the time and expense of obtaining individual medical records via fax and
mail.
While progress has been made over the past decade to increase the number of
partner organizations who participate, SSA currently receives less than 20% of its
annual 15 million medical records via Health IT.2 Most health data still arrives to
SSA as mailed or faxed paper documents that must be manually scanned,
organized, and added to a claimant’s file.3 This process is slow, expensive, and
burdensome to the already strapped agency staff. Changes must be made.
Incentivized expansion of the Health IT program is crucial. If more health providers
partner with SSA to provide information via Health IT, it is a net positive for
everyone involved. Patients, their helpers, providers, and the agency all benefit
from time and resource savings. The pathways, programming, and permissions
already exist—incentivized participation is all that’s missing to ensure the long-
term success of this program.
PC-10(c): What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented
through TEFCA?
SSA has already begun implementing a public benefits use case through their
Health IT program. Health care facilities understand that, with proper permissions
in place, patients’ data will be shared with government entities as part of the
common agreement. However, we urge you to work directly with SSA to publicly
describe a public benefits use case as part of the common agreement. Removing any
potential obstacles from participation will streamline the success of this program,
providing a mutually beneficial outcome for all parties.
This clearly articulated expansion would have a profound effect on vulnerable
disabled Americans and the people who help them.
Once a public benefits use case is established, every American health care
organization on TEFCA could send medical records to SSA electronically, regardless
of their electronic health record type. This would provide a better experience for the
millions of Americans who submit disability claims, save SSA money that is
currently spent handling paper records, and, ultimately, reduce uncompensated
care provided by hospitals nationwide as those in need will have the proper benefits
in place faster.
2 https://www.ssa.gov/hit/our-expertise.html
3 https://oig.ssa.gov/assets/uploads/a-01-18-50342summary.pdf
- 3 -

We are grateful to CMS and ASTP/ONC for creating a policy framework to promote
the seamless and secure flow of health information. Enabling the secure flow of
digital health data is vital for the functionality of public disability programs like
those provided by SSA, as well as for patients, their helpers, their caregivers, and
their providers.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment and for your consideration.
Sincerely,
David Camp
Chief Executive Officer and General Counsel
- 4 -