February 19, 2026
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: Request for Information: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Mary E. Switzer Building
Mail Stop: 7033A, 330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Dear Secretary Kennedy,
The American Academy of Dermatology Association (AADA) writes to provide comments on the Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) Request for Information (RFI): Accelerating the Adoption and Use of
Artificial Intelligence (AI) as Part of Clinical Care. The AADA represents more than 17,500 dermatologists
nationwide who are committed to excellence in the medical and surgical treatment of skin disease; advocating
for high standards in clinical practice, education, and research in dermatology and dermatopathology; and
driving continuous improvement in patient care and outcomes while reducing the burden of disease.
AADA supports thoughtful use of AI provided its design enables reliable, clinically accurate, and high-quality
patient care without overburdening physicians. We urge HHS to implement ongoing evaluation to ensure
these tools maintain quality and effectiveness. We also ask HHS to consider financial barriers to implementing
AI systems as well as the impacts of AI on diagnostic and utilization management tools such as claims, coding,
and prior authorization review tools as outlined below. We appreciate the opportunity to contribute to this
important dialogue with HHS and offer the following comments in response to the questions in the RFI.1
Barriers to Private-Sector AI Innovation and Clinical Adoption
As HHS seeks to identify barriers to AI innovation in clinical care, the agency must ensure these tools never
supplant or restrict a patient’s ability to access in-person care when they want it. The Academy supports
1 “Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and cost expectations and where have they fallen
short? What kinds of novel AI tools would have the greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give new insights on quality,
and help reduce costs?” Federal Register :: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
Part of Clinical Care

Request for Information: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
February 19, 2026
Page 2 of 6
patient access to physician led care and the freedom to choose their own physicians, including specialists and
subspecialists. Physicians must also be able to access and implement AI should they choose to do so. Yet the
financial cost to practices seeking to implement AI may be prohibitive, particularly to smaller, rural practices.
Physicians should not be penalized if they do not have the resources to incorporate AI into their practice. HHS
is encouraged to develop guidance to promote AI affordability while still accounting for necessary oversight of
AI by clinical experts, as discussed in greater detail below.
Regulatory, Payment Policy, and Programmatic Design Considerations of AI in
Clinical Care
AADA requests that HHS promote guardrails that support the delivery of high-quality care to patients and
incorporate the following principles:
• Sensitive data used to train AI algorithms must be handled in accordance with patient privacy laws and
ethical standards,
• AI algorithms must be developed using auditable data that is representative of the population on
which it will be used,
• AI algorithms used for the delivery of patient care must be subject to rigorous and transparent data
validation, routine quality and safety evaluation to assess model drifts, and ethical review before
deployment,
• the algorithms themselves must also be transparent, accessible, and comprehensible for the intended
end user(s), and
• Design, implementation, and evaluation of AI tools for clinical care should responsibly incorporate
input and feedback from key stakeholders, including physicians and patient advocates.
The Academy offers the following perspectives on payer-developed AI programs in response to HHS’s request
for comments on AI performance in clinical care. The Academy is specifically focused on the impact payer AI-
enhanced utilization review programs, such as claims review, coding, and prior authorization programs, have
on clinical care and payment.
AI Payer Claims Review Programs
Major health insurers have deployed AI programs to expedite review of physician-submitted claims, which has
the potential to promote more timely reimbursement. Yet dermatologists report an increasing number of
payers unilaterally adjusting reported Evaluation and Management (E/M) code level (downcoding) claims and
reducing payment automatically using AI tools, without first requesting and reviewing clinical records that are
integral to the adjudication of the claim. Increasingly, these payer AI programs are operating without notice to
dermatologists. Improper downcoding destabilizes accurate data collection and analyses regarding patient
encounters, undermines practices’ financial stability, and wastes resources on appealing downcoded claims.
The AADA opposes improper payment reductions for services appropriately documented as it creates
unnecessary administrative burden for practices forced to appeal improperly downcoded claims. Further,

Request for Information: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
February 19, 2026
Page 3 of 6
payer use of AI adjusted risk scores in quality payment programs need to incorporate appropriate attribution
methodology based on valid, meaningful and transparent quality metrics.
Beyond the impact on physicians, human review is necessary to ensure coding accuracy and prevent
inappropriate downcoding and denials, which negatively impact patient care. The nuance and complexity of
medical records demand careful judgement and a thorough contextual understanding that only human
expertise can provide when determining the correct procedure modifiers and codes. Without human
expertise, AI systems may misinterpret nuanced or complex medical records. These challenges underscore the
importance of skilled human coders working in tandem with AI tools, allowing automation to support rather
than replace human expertise and patient-centered clinical knowledge. Flagged claims should be reviewed by
healthcare professionals with relevant expertise examining patient records. Furthermore, insurers should be
required to track and report the accuracy of their AI claim review programs to HHS; AADA recommends that
HHS audit insurers whose AI claim review programs raise suspicions of misuse. While AI offers the potential to
streamline claims processing and timely payment, over-reliance on the technology by payers results in real
and—at times—irreversible harm to patients in the form of delayed or inaccessible care. Payer use of AI
therefore warrants special scrutiny to preserve the integrity of clinical decision-making and ensure timely
access to medically necessary care.
We recommend that HHS enhance its regulatory oversight of AI-driven payer downcoding and develop
guidelines for best practices on using AI in claims review. Recommendations for best practices include using
AI as the first step to review and flag claims suspected of inappropriate coding, followed by appropriate
human examination, and ensuring transparency and ongoing evaluation of AI in claims review.
Use of AI in Prior Authorizations
Poorly designed payer-driven prior authorization programs increase direct and indirect costs for physicians
and patients alike, resulting in delays in care, adding administrative burden to practices, and amplifying
patient stress. Novel AI tools have the potential to alleviate the burdens associated with payer-driven prior
authorization programs that physicians experience. For example:
 Ambient intelligence uses AI in devices to detect the presence of humans and respond accordingly. This
type of AI tool can be used to populate dermatology clinical notes, capture patient data from notes,
and automatically complete prior authorization requests.
 Large language models can analyze clinical notes and images to strengthen prior authorization
requests.
 AI-powered clinical decision support tools help ensure that submissions meet payer-specific criteria,
and automated systems can generate comprehensive prior authorization narratives based on patient
records.
However, until AI systems are trained on clinical data derived from medical records - rather than public data -
and can accurately recognize complex medical care, payers’ clinical staff must continue to review prior

Request for Information: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
February 19, 2026
Page 4 of 6
authorization denials. To address poorly designed payer-driven prior authorization programs and support
physicians, we recommend HHS take the following actions:
 Implement public reporting requirements on payers’ use of prior authorization to HHS, including
approval and denial rate by each service or medication. In addition to making payer prior authorization
more transparent, this would also enable AI systems to learn from and enhance the review process . In
2025, major insurers met with Secretary Kennedy and Administrator Oz to pledge their commitment to
streamline and improve prior authorization processes.2 The Academy applauds Secretary Kennedy and
Administrator Oz for securing this unprecedented commitment and urges the implementation of
reporting requirements to ensure adherence to that commitment.
 Direct insurers to use AI solely for approving prior authorizations while requiring their clinical staff to
review denials.
 In coordination with AI entities, offer grants to small, independent practices seeking to implement AI
systems to facilitate adoption of practice-based systems to relieve the administrative burden in
complying with prior authorization requirements.
AI in the Practice Setting: Physician Coding and Diagnostic Tools
Similar to recommendations for payer AI use, the AADA recognizes potential benefits for dermatology
practices to integrate use of AI-driven coding and diagnostic tools, while continuing to encourage inclusion of
human examination in coding and diagnostics. Using AI tools to automate routine tasks such as code
identification and compliance checks with billing guidelines empowers dermatologists and their coding staff to
increase successful claims. If used appropriately, shifting to AI automation of routine tasks enables a stronger
focus on improving and streamlining medical record documentation, which enhances AI accuracy in code
selection. The result is fewer coding errors, more timely claim submissions, and a smoother revenue cycle —
contributing to greater operational efficiency and financial stability. Additionally, physicians may consider
incorporating AI into diagnostic tools to improve efficiency, reduce tedium, and perform triage. However,
practices should consider AI as an assistant, not a replacement to human review of diagnostic tools. While AI
may eventually produce tools capable of aiding in diagnostics, caution is urged.
In contrast to payer use of AI, which too often results in barriers to care, physicians are adopting AI as a
supportive tool to enhance accuracy, efficiency, and patient outcomes—and not to replace critical human-in-
the-loop oversight. Any regulatory policies should therefore aid physician access and avoid imposing
additional compliance burdens so physicians can continue to focus on patient care rather than administrative
complexity.
We encourage HHS to consider the following recommendations:
 Most AI systems are trained using public data, which introduces accuracy and privacy issues. These
issues range from HIPAA adherence when using sensitive data, presence of inaccurate or outdated
information, and increased risk of errors due to the complexity of claims. We encourage HHS to
convene a work group of medical professionals and AI data experts to develop appropriate regulations
2 HHS Secretary Kennedy, CMS Administrator Oz Secure Industry Pledge to Fix Broken Prior Authorization System | HHS.gov

Request for Information: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
February 19, 2026
Page 5 of 6
on AI training and privacy. Dermatologists should be a key part of this group, given their work across a
wide range of services from routine procedures to highly specialized treatments that require precise
data.
 Develop guidelines for best practices on using AI diagnostic tools. Recommendations for best practices
include using AI as the first step to review diagnostics and flag where additional human expert review is
required before a clinical decision is made.
 To ensure physicians have access to accurate AI-driven coding tools, we recommend HHS institute
post-marketing surveillance of these tools to ensure safety. Routine evaluation of AI-driven coding and
diagnostic tools will ensure the technology evolves in a manner that protects patients, improves
quality, cost, and effectiveness of care delivery.
 AADA recommends that HHS, in coordination with AI entities, provide research grants focused on
evaluating the clinical effectiveness and patient safety of AI tools. Funding research on AI in clinical
care benefits AI-driven coding and diagnostic tools. Research will help protect patients, promote
clinical effectiveness, and determine how data collected during model deployment can be used to
retrain and refine models for validation studies and post deployment monitoring. Ultimately, research
findings may be used to enhance AI’s potential to improve health care outcomes, give new insights on
quality, and help reduce costs.
 AADA recommends that HHS collaborate with other federal agencies, including the Department of
Justice and Office of Inspector General, to identify regulations regarding physician liability and to issue
guidance on their application when AI is used to help clarify risk allocation. AI is still developing and
comes with imperfections which may result in exposing physicians to liability, including medical
malpractice concerns. Additionally, using AI for coding and billing without effective oversight may
result in billing errors and overpayments that have fraud and abuse implications. To address these
concerns, we recommend that HHS establish a safe harbor that clarifies and limits physician liability
when AI is used as a support tool in the case of documented clinical oversight, compliance protocols,
and diagnostics. The financial cost of implementing AI systems is a deterrent for independent physician
practices. To implement AI-driven systems, a practice must endure costs associated with technology
acquisition, integration, and staff training. Additionally, the potential risks of implementation — such
as system errors, underperformance, or failure to meet expectations — can deter practices from
adopting these technologies without clear evidence of return on investment. We encourage HHS to, in
coordination with AI entities, offer federal and state grants to small, independent practices seeking to
implement AI systems.
Conclusion
We applaud HHS’ focus on accelerating adoption and use of AI in clinical care. AI tools present an opportunity
to improve health care outcomes, give new insights on quality, and help reduce costs. These tools also have
the potential to increase administrative burdens on practices, delay care, and contribute to practices’ financial
instability. We encourage HHS to thoroughly consider the recommendations provided in this letter and
appreciate the opportunity to offer comments. If you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact
Lou Terranova, Associate Director, Health Policy & Payment, at lterranova@aad.org or 847-240-1465.

Request for Information: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
February 19, 2026
Page 6 of 6
Sincerely,
Susan C. Taylor, MD, FAAD
President, American Academy of Dermatology Association