February 23, 2026
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
Secretary
Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Attention: HHS Health Sector AI RFI, Mary E. Switzer Building
Mail Stop: 7033A
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical
Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
The American Geriatrics Society (AGS) greatly appreciates the opportunity to submit our comments to the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on its request for information (RFI) regarding the acceleration
of the adoption and use of artificial intelligence (AI) as part of clinical care.
AGS is a nationwide, not-for-profit society of geriatrics healthcare professionals dedicated to improving the
health, independence, and quality of life of older people. Our 6,000+ physician and non-physician practitioners
(NPPs) are pioneers in serious illness care for older individuals, with a focus on championing interprofessional
teams, eliciting personal care goals, and treating older people as whole persons. AGS is an anti-discriminatory
organization. We believe in a society where we all are supported by and able to contribute to our communities.
The Society leads efforts to incorporate attention to older adults living with multiple chronic conditions into
research1,2 and clinical care3,4 and is a champion for improving attention to the unique health care needs of
older adults in workforce training.5,6 We believe that understanding disease across the lifespan7 is important to
extending healthspan—the time someone lives in generally good health—for all of us as we age.
1 Advancing Geriatrics Research: AGS/NIA Conference Series. American Geriatrics Society. Accessed February 17, 2026.
https://www.americangeriatrics.org/programs/advancing-geriatrics-research-agsnia-conference-series
2 The AGS/AGING LEARNING Collaborative. AGS CoCare. Accessed February 17, 2026.
https://mccresearch.agscocare.org/what_is_the_ags_aging_learning_collaborative
3 American Geriatrics Society Expert Panel on the Care of Older Adults with Multimorbidity. Guiding principles for the care of older adults
with multimorbidity: an approach for clinicians. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012;60(10):e1-e25. doi:10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.04188.x
4 McNabney MK, Green AR, Burke M, et al. Complexities of care: common components of models of care in geriatrics. J Am Geriatr Soc.
2022;70(7):1960–1972. doi:10.1111/jgs.17811
5 American Geriatrics Society. Letters to House and Senate Appropriations Leadership on FY 2026 Funding for Geriatrics Workforce
Training Programs. July 14, 2025. Accessed February 17, 2026.
https://www.americangeriatrics.org/sites/default/files/Letters%20to%20House%20and%20Senate%20Appropriations%20Leadership%20
on%20FY%202026%20Funding%20for%20Geriatrics%20Workforce%20Training%20Programs%20%287%2014%2025%29.pdf
6 AGS Advancing Geriatrics in Surgical & Medical Specialties. Special Collection. J Am Geriatr Soc. Accessed February 17, 2026.
https://agsjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/hub/journal/15325415/agsadvancinggeriatrics
7 Inclusion Across the Lifespan in Human Subjects Research. National Institutes of Health. Updated February 27, 2025. Accessed February
17, 2026. https://grants.nih.gov/policy-and-compliance/policy-topics/inclusion/lifespan
AGS Comments on HHS RFI on Accelerating Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
Page 1

Our members are on the frontlines of
caring for older Americans, many of
whom are living with multiple
chronic conditions, advanced illness,
and/or with complicated
biopsychosocial issues. An important
framework for how geriatrics health
professionals care for older adults is
the Geriatrics 5Ms (see table on the
right).8 The Geriatrics 5Ms informed
the development of the 4Ms of age-friendly care (What Matters, Medications, Mentation, and Mobility) of the
Age-Friendly Health Systems (AFHS) movement which seeks to reimagine the 21st century health system so as to
provide care that is age-friendly, respects the goals and preferences of older persons, and meaningfully and
substantially includes family caregivers in the plan of care.9
AGS appreciates that HHS is seeking feedback to inform HHS-wide use of regulation, reimbursement, and
research & development in the application of AI for the ultimate benefit of patients, caregivers, and
communities. Geriatricians and other geriatrics clinicians who care for older adults with complicated medical
issues and social challenges support a holistic life stage approach. This is vital to fully understand the diverse
effects of aging on the older adult population and effectively address the multifaceted issues related to aging.
Accordingly, AGS respectfully submits the following recommendations that reflect the most relevant and
appropriate considerations for older adults.
TOPIC RECOMMENDATION
Barriers to private sector Addressing Time Constraints; Lack of Knowledge, Readily Available Information,
innovation in AI for health and Evidence; and Insufficient Implementation Support
care and its adoption and • Promote hybrid AI-human systems where decision-making is transparent
use in clinical care and guided by clinician and patient values and preferences.
• Increase transparency about how AI models and tools are built, used, and
updated.
• Support participatory design methods that align AI tools with users’ goals,
abilities, and values, as well as studies that address barriers to uptake,
including workflow integration, clinician burden, and reimbursement
models.
• Focus on clinician-in-the-loop AI for geriatrics decision support, involving
both computer scientists and geriatrics health professionals.
• Invest in continual learning algorithms that adapt to population shifts (e.g.,
post-COVID aging care patterns, new medications) while maintaining clinical
safety.
Regulatory, payment Ensuring Data Readiness, Interoperability, and Integration
policy, or programmatic • Facilitate linkage and harmonization across electronic health records (EHRs),
design changes HHS sensors, imaging, genomics, claims, and social determinants data.
should prioritize to
8 Tinetti M, Huang A, Molnar F. The Geriatrics 5M's: a new way of communicating what we do. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2017;65(9):2115.
doi:10.1111/jgs.14979
9 Mate KS, Berman A, Laderman M, Kabcenell A, Fulmer T. Creating age-friendly health systems - a vision for better care of older adults.
Healthc. 2018;6(1):4-6. doi:10.1016/j.hjdsi.2017.05.005
AGS Comments on HHS RFI on Accelerating Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
Page 2

incentivize effective use of • Promote common data models and standards (e.g., Fast Healthcare
AI and augment ability to Interoperability Resources, Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership) to
develop or use AI in support scalable and reusable AI tools.
clinical care • Develop standardized frameworks for Intellectual Property (IP)-sharing,
privacy-preserving analytics, and responsible model stewardship (e.g., model
cards, usage audits) that would further support innovation without
compromising trust or transparency.
• Evaluate Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) payment models
for AI-assisted care interventions.
Ethical and Equity Considerations
• Create aging-specific ethical frameworks addressing consent capacity, data
sharing preferences, surveillance, and autonomy in AI-assisted decision-
making, while considering the critical importance of delivery of person-
centered care10 that facilitates cross-study research and evaluation of best
practices in clinical care.
• Build regulatory frameworks for age-related bias and equity to establish
standards that identify and mitigate age-related algorithmic bias and
promote equitable AI performance across diverse older populations.
For non-medical devices, Legal Implications and Safeguards
novel legal and • Facilitate educational activities to raise awareness that helps all stakeholders
implementation issues ensure appropriate steps are taken for the implementation and evaluation
that challenge existing of legal frameworks and safeguards that define liability boundaries and
governance and support safe and ethical use of non-medical devices across populations.
accountability structures • Ensure safeguarding of data privacy and confidentiality, advancement of
and HHS’ role to help health equity and addressing bias, and protecting patients and care partners.
address them • Establish guardrails for passive monitoring (e.g., smart home devices,
wearables) and algorithm-driven recommendations for vulnerable
populations.
Governance and Accountability
• Create aging-specific governance models that guide data access, model
approval, and clinical integration.
• Develop and pilot institutional governance toolkits for AI in aging.
• Require governance plans for all AI research, including use cases, data flows,
and accountability mechanisms.
For non-medical devices, Evaluation Methods
promising AI evaluation • Human-centered and accessible design that requires geriatrics-informed
methods (pre- and post- user experience standards to ensure devices are usable by older adults and
deployment), metrics, avoid misapplication and safety risks.
robustness testing, and • Geriatrics-specific testbeds, "living labs" for aging AI, and real-world
other evaluation methods environments (e.g., older adult housing, Program of All-Inclusive Care for the
for clinical care and HHS’ Elderly (PACE) programs, home health agencies) where models can be safely
deployed and iteratively refined.
10 The American Geriatrics Society Expert Panel on Person-Centered Care. Person-centered care: a definition and essential elements. J Am
Geriatr Soc. 2016;64(1):15-18. doi:10.1111/jgs.13866
AGS Comments on HHS RFI on Accelerating Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
Page 3

support of these • Engage older populations, including those with complex needs (e.g.,
processes multimorbidity, frailty, cognitive impairment) and care partners as co-
creators, testers, and evaluators of AI tools.
• Create regulatory quality parameters for developers to apply when
marketing a device to ensure transparency, trust, and awareness about the
benefits and risks of the device.
Metrics for Evaluation
• Error rate reduction
• User satisfaction
• Match accuracy
• Scheduling efficiency
• Reach and usability
Where AI tools deployed Areas for Improvement
in clinical care met, • Accessibility and usability
exceeded, or fell short of • Accuracy without omissions or hallucinations
performance and cost • Supporting prevention of clinician burnout
expectations • Enhancing patient-clinician communications
Administrative hurdles for Administrative Hurdles
health care organizations • Determination of the most appropriate AI tools to implement in a
in the adoption of AI in transparent manner involving frontline clinicians and the community in
clinical care decision-making processes.
• Regular and frequent access to clinical informatics teams or users who are
familiar with AI use in clinical settings.
Where enhanced Widen Market Opportunities
interoperability would • Pilot dual-licensing strategies for AI tools and datasets that are open for non-
widen market commercial and academic use to support reproducibility.
opportunities, fuel • Provisions for commercial use to support public benefit, such as
research, and accelerate reinvestment into communities or low-resource settings.
the development of AI for Support open science by default while allowing more restrictive
o
clinical care licensing or data use when justified by privacy, national security, or
competitiveness concerns.
• Create partnerships and data- and model-sharing consortia via interagency
initiatives or collaborations with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA),
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other aging-related agencies as
well as philanthropic organizations and state-level aging agencies to pilot AI
on regulatory science, reimbursement pathways, and care delivery pilots
across settings (e.g., home-based care, PACE, skilled nursing facilities) where
older adults receive the bulk of their care.
Fuel Research
• Develop model repositories (akin to the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Bridge2AI) that include metadata on population characteristics, social
determinants variables, bias assessments, and intended use.
AGS Comments on HHS RFI on Accelerating Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
Page 4

• Support cross-institution human factors research in AI that emphasizes
interface usability for aging clinicians and patients, shared decision-making
integration, explanation clarity, and communication of uncertainty.
• Encourage use of data sheets for datasets and model cards for all AI tools
proposed for aging research with emphasis on generalizability, limitations,
and ethical considerations.
• Advance lifelong learning agents that adapt to evolving patient data and
generate aging-specific insights across datasets.
Challenges and concerns Concerns of Privacy, Safety, and Use of Data Without Clear Consent
of patients and caregivers • Implement safeguards for vulnerable frail older adults, especially those with
related to the adoption cognitive impairment and whose first language is not English.
and use of AI in clinical • Address historical mistrust, especially among underrepresented populations.
care • Encourage support of AI for care coordination and caregiver engagement.
Development and evaluation of tools that assist with transitions of
o
care, caregiver support, and advance care planning in older adults.
Specific areas of AI Research Areas to Prioritize
research that HHS should • Curated, longitudinal aging studies with linked clinical and functional
prioritize to accelerate the outcomes to enable training and validation of generalizable models.
adoption of AI as part of • Preclinical-to-clinical pipelines specific to aging interventions, including tools
clinical care for assessing functional outcomes, quality of life, and caregiver burden as
core AI endpoints.
• Whole-person-focused studies of age-related chronic diseases, such as
diabetes, heart disease, and cancer that continue to afflict 80 percent of
people who are 65 and older.11
• Replication studies that independently validate AI models in different health
systems and among diverse aging subpopulations such as those living in rural
areas, who are cognitively impaired, or with limited function.
• Benchmark studies for aging-related conditions (e.g., frailty, dementia, falls)
with pre-defined tasks and metrics for fair comparison across models.
Thank you for your consideration of our recommendations. If you have comments or questions, please contact
Anna Kim, Senior Manager of Public Affairs & Advocacy, at 212-308-1414 or akim@americangeriatrics.org.
Sincerely,
Paul Mulhausen, MD Nancy E. Lundebjerg, MPA
President Chief Executive Officer
11 National Prevention Council. Healthy Aging in Action: Advancing the National Prevention Strategy. November 2016. Accessed February
17, 2026. https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/healthy-aging-in-action-final.pdf
AGS Comments on HHS RFI on Accelerating Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
Page 5