Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
June 11, 2025
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
Dear Dr. Oz:
Vantive appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services (CMS), Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/Office of the National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) (collectively, ASTP/ONC) request for
information (RFI) on the Health Technology Ecosystem.
Vantive is dedicated to elevating the standards of kidney and vital organ therapies with a
vision to enable longer, fuller lives for patients everywhere. Vantive delivers innovative
products, digitally enhanced solutions and advanced services to support dialysis at home
and in the clinic, as well as critical care therapy to support the kidney and other vital
organs in an intensive care unit setting. Patients across more than 100 countries around
the world interact with Vantive’s people, solutions and services over 1 million times each
day.
We appreciate this RFI, and we offer our recommendations below for improving the health
technology ecosystem, especially as it relates to promoting adoption of technologies that
can improve patient outcomes in the home dialysis setting.
1. Patient Needs
PC–5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in
these digital health products?
a. . . . What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can
increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example,
enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new
beneficiary communications)?
[Vantive Healthcare LLC] [510 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield IL 60015]

We recommend that CMS adopt reimbursement reforms to more directly recognize and
incentivize the value of remote monitoring and digital care coordination, particularly for
Medicare home peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients.
At Vantive, we offer the Sharesource Connectivity Platform, a widely adopted cloud-based
clinical connectivity platform used with our home PD systems. Sharesource enables
remote patient monitoring (RPM) by giving clinicians real-time visibility into key therapy
metrics—such as treatment adherence, ultrafiltration, and dwell times—helping to identify
potential complications before they escalate into costly or harmful events. This technology
platform empowers earlier clinical intervention, enhances patient safety, and contributes
to better outcomes in the home dialysis setting, which aligns with CMS goals to expand
home dialysis modalities and improve quality of care.1,2,3
However, under the current Medicare end stage renal disease (ESRD) prospective payment
system (PPS), nephrologists and dialysis providers receive a single bundled payment per
treatment that does not separately account for the time and clinical value associated with
digital remote monitoring. The lack of Medicare payment makes it economically unfeasible
for providers to fully utilize tools like Sharesource, despite their demonstrated ability to
prevent adverse events, reduce hospitalizations, and support patient independence.
CMS plays a critical role in shaping the Medicare reimbursement environment that could
drive adoption of digital remote monitoring in the home dialysis setting, which is essential
to unlocking the full promise of digital health for patients and caregivers. Vantive therefore
recommends the following policy changes to drive adoption and utilization of remote
monitoring for home dialysis patients:
1. Expand RPM Code Eligibility for Nephrologists
CMS should consider issuing guidance specific to the ESRD PPS that would
explicitly permit nephrologists to bill Medicare for existing CPT codes for remote
physiologic monitoring (e.g., 99457, 99458) when using platforms like Sharesource
to manage home dialysis patients. These codes are reported in order to
compensate providers for time spent reviewing data and communicating with
patients, yet nephrologists currently are reluctant to use them due to ambiguity
around their applicability under the ESRD PPS bundle.
2. Add-on Payment for Remote Monitoring in Home Dialysis
Alternatively, CMS could consider creating a separate, targeted Medicare add-on
1American Medical Association. Driving the future of digital health. Accessed 21 August 2024, https://www.ama-assn.org/practice-
management/digital/driving-future-digital-health
2 Milan Manani S, Rosner MH, Virzi GM, et al. Longitudinal Experience with Remote Monitoring for Automated Peritoneal Dialysis Patients.
Nephron. 2019;142(1):1-9. doi:10.1159/000496182
3 Uchiyama K, Morimoto K, Washida N, et al. Effects of a remote patient monitoring system for patients on automated peritoneal dialysis: a
randomized crossover controlled trial. Int UrolNephrol. Oct 2022;54(10):2673-2681. doi:10.1007/s11255-022-03178-5
[Vantive Healthcare LLC] [510 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield IL 60015]

payment outside of the ESRD PPS bundle to enable reporting and payment of
remote monitoring for home dialysis patients.
3. Enhance Beneficiary and Caregiver Education and Access to Data
For ESRD patients, especially those on home dialysis, CMS should support digital literacy
efforts tailored to this high-need population. Educational tools and care team support
can help patients and caregivers understand how to use remote monitoring platforms,
interpret key data (e.g., fluid status, infection signs), and stay engaged in therapy.
Tailoring content to varying health literacy levels and languages will be essential to drive
adoption and improve outcomes.
4. Establish Quality Metrics Tied to Digital Health Engagement
CMS could explore the inclusion of quality metrics in ESRD QIP or future value-
based models that measure effective use of RPM platforms in home dialysis. Such
quality metrics could assess such factors as timely clinician interventions based on
remote data or improved treatment adherence rates.
2. Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients
or their caregivers or both?
In the context of home dialysis, particularly peritoneal dialysis, several types of health data
are both readily available and highly valuable to patients and caregivers when presented in
an accessible, actionable format. Through platforms like Sharesource, patients and
caregivers can benefit from real-time or near real-time access to:
• Treatment adherence data (e.g., whether therapy was completed as prescribed)4
• Ultrafiltration volume (an indicator of fluid removal success)5
• Dwell time and cycle data (to track therapy duration and performance)6
• Alarm notifications or skipped treatments7
• Supply usage and logistics tracking7
This information helps patients understand their day-to-day therapy performance and
gives caregivers early insight into potential complications. For example, if a patient’s
ultrafiltration consistently trends low, this could signal an early sign of peritonitis or
catheter function issues—allowing for proactive support and timely clinical escalation.
4 Jotterand Drepper V, Martin, PY, Stoermann Chopard C, et al. Remote patient management in automated peritoneal dialysis: a promising new
tool. Perit Dial Int. 2018;38:76-78.
5 Yeter HH, Akcay OF, Ronco C, Derici U. Automated remote monitoring for peritoneal dialysis and its impact on blood pressure. Cardiorenal
Medicine. 2020;10(3):198-208.
6 Firanek C, Salas M, Gellens M, Gatesman RD, Wiebenson D, Sloand JA. Discrepancy between prescribed and actual APD prescription delivery:
identification using cycler remote management technology. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2017;32
7 Analytics 1.0 User Guide.
[Vantive Healthcare LLC] [510 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield IL 60015]

E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
1. Ecosystem
TD–1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare
beneficiaries and caregivers?
To attract sustained innovation in digital health solutions for Medicare beneficiaries, CMS
should pursue a mix of short-term incentives and longer-term structural changes that
signal support for a digital-forward, value-based care ecosystem.
Short-term (Next 2 Years):
1. Clarify and Expand RPM and RTM Code Eligibility Across Settings
As noted above, we recommend that CMS provide clear guidance on the use of CPT
codes for RPM and remote therapeutic monitoring (RTM) by specialists managing
Medicare patients—including nephrologists in the ESRD space. Developers are
more likely to invest in tools like the Sharesource Connectivity Platform when the
costs of such technologies and services are reimbursed under Medicare.
2. Launch a Digital Health Innovation Challenge for Priority Populations
CMS could partner with CMMI or ONC to sponsor focused innovation grants or pilot
programs for digital solutions that address chronic conditions with high Medicare
spending and complexity (e.g., ESRD, CHF, COPD). Such initiatives would create an
early-stage market signal to developers that CMS is actively seeking and willing to
support new solutions.
3. Emphasize Real-world Experience. HHS could explore shifting the approval
paradigm for digital products to prioritize ongoing post-market surveillance data
over initial clinical evidence requirements to emphasize real-world clinical
experience.
Longer-term:
1. Incorporate Digital Health Use into Quality and Payment Models
CMS should continue its efforts to link the use of validated digital tools to value-
based payment programs, including within the Shared Savings Program and future
ESRD innovation models. We recommend that future priorities include rewarding
effective use of remote monitoring platforms that demonstrably reduce
hospitalizations or improve adherence and outcomes.
2. Invest in Digital Literacy Programs
To encourage development of digital health tools to reach more Medicare
beneficiaries, CMS should invest in initiatives that expand digital access among
[Vantive Healthcare LLC] [510 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield IL 60015]

rural Medicare beneficiaries, including broadband support, technology grants, and
digital literacy training.
* * *
We appreciate your consideration of our comments.
Sincerely,
Andrew Whitman
EVP & Head of Corporate Affairs
[Vantive Healthcare LLC] [510 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield IL 60015]