Rachel (Rae) Walker PhD RN FAAN
Professor, Elaine Marieb College of Nursing
Director, Health Tech for the People
University of Massachusetts Amherst
Email: R.Walker@umass.edu
Re: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence
as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
The following public comment responds to RIN 0955-AA13. I am a PhD-prepared Registered
Nurse and tenured Professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. My clinical
background includes emergency response and international disaster relief, patient navigation,
gerontology and cancer care in both acute care and community-based settings. I am the founder
and co-director of Health Tech for the People, a multidisciplinary think tank focused on
accountable development and evaluation of health technologies. I have worked on A.I.-related
research and policy for more than fifteen years.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its
adoption and use in clinical care?
• The correct question should be what are the appropriate uses for A.I. in health care, and
under what conditions/in what contexts? At present, there are a myriad of technologies
purporting to be ‘A.I’, which has been deployed as a marketing term (Bender & Hanna,
2025). This confuses the conversation as we often lack universally adopted
nomenclatures or conceptual precision.
• Lack of engagement of ‘end users’ and those most impacted by the introduction or
expansion of these technologies, especially patient and community groups marginalized
within these systems, shift workers and laborers surveilled by these technologies, and
care workers such as nurses, social workers, and educators (Walker et al., 2023).
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to
incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies,
or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care?
Please provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
• A.I. in theory has promised to transform health care. But too much A.I. in practice
maintains a segregated, understaffed and unjust status quo, and a key driver of this
disparity is policy that allows clinical care systems to make claims related to potential
benefits of A.I. and similar technologies and act on them, without having to demonstrate
those claims are actually true (Frizzell, 2023; Narayanan & Kapoor, 2024; National
Nurses United, 2023; Pavuluri et al., 2024). Furthermore, mechanisms for redress of
harms remain unclear as does legal culpability in the context of automated systems (and
especially agentic A.I.).

• Furthermore, recent reductions in protections for workers from impacts of automated
surveillance and management systems (AWSM) pose a critical risk for the future of the
health care workforce (Garofalo et al., 2023; Hickok & Maslej, 2023; Office, 2024;
Sinnreich & Gilbert, 2024).
3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise novel legal
and implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability structures
( e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel legal and
implementation issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to help address them?
• A.I. in theory has promised to transform health care. But too much A.I. in practice
maintains a segregated, understaffed and unjust status quo, and a key driver of this
disparity is policy.
• A.I. agents combine a chatbot mimicking human empathy with other health info. Unlike
ChatGPT, they can initiate actions like assessments or referrals –even converse with
other AI models - without being prompted. Hundreds are already for sale and nurses and
other clinicians have been invited to train them. Under current Federal law these models
are largely not allowed to diagnose or prescribe, though recently introduced legislation
proposals such as HR 238 (“Healthy Technology Act”) would redefine AI as a prescriber.
This represents a paradigm shift that would fundamentally dismantle the patient-provider
relationship as we know it and we do not yet have enough research to understand all the
potential implications of this, and/or properly assess and regulate such a change.
• I’m practical about this: I live in a rural area, where it is often difficult to access care –
especially primary care and specialty care. A.I. agents might remove some barriers to
care access in some specific contexts. But Without STRONG community-driven policy
and regulation with teeth, it will create new and long term problems such as even greater
potentials for manipulation of patients (via targeted advertising of health services by
behemoths such as Amazon and Meta), and longer term reduction and de-skilling of the
health care workforce in areas where there are already severe shortages (Gerlich, 2025;
Lee et al., 2025).
• We risk creating an even more segregated health care system where those who already
have access to resources will be able to continue to access human and A.I.-supported
care, while those who do not have adequate access will be forced to rely on remotely-
managed and agentic forms of care (if they can access care at all).
4. For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods (pre- and post-
deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and human-centered evaluation
methods for clinical care? Should HHS further support these processes? If so, which
mechanisms would be most impactful ( e.g., contracts, grants, cooperative agreements,
and/or prize competitions)?
• Prioritize grants to state and local level governance spaces which can help to shape the
research agendas for those specific regions/contexts
• Fund grassroots community organizations especially those representing constiutencies
most likely to be impacted by deployment of A.I. systems (workers, patients,

communities marginalized within decision-making spaces for health care and
technologies).
• Continue to provide grants to researchers and community advocates at public-serving
academic/research institutions such as public universities, but do not require those grants
to “accelerate A.I. adoption”. We should have the capacity to look holistically at root
causes and systems-level drivers of health inequities, and propose and evaluate solutions
based on the approaches that best fit the priorities of the people. This may or may not
involve ‘accelerating’ A.I. adoption in health care, depending on the nature of the
problem definition and context.
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities ( e.g., accreditation, certification, industry-
driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in clinical care?
• HHS should consider all forms of this technology that may be required for the delivery of
health care as digital public infrastructure, and fund and regulate them accordingly.
Ceding this space to private industry may result in technological innovations, but those
innovations will be designed to generate shareholder value rather than support health
equity (Zucker, 2020).
• In calculating investments, HHS should consider the broader human and planetary costs
of these technologies, many of which are so resource-intensive that they threaten to
collapse ecosystems and reduce – rather than promote – public health in the longer term
(Crawford, 2024; McDonald, 2024; Ricaurte, 2022; Schultz et al., 2025).
• Care workers like nurses currently have little access to information about how A.I. tools
integrated into clinical care actually function. Although labels and ‘model cards’ have
been suggested by groups like the Coalition for Health A.I. (CHAI: https://www.chai.org)
, these are not mandated nor – in the rare cases they are made available – are they
available to bedside workers in ways that would allow for meaningful use. More
research, conducted in naturalistic settings, is needed to establish how these tools
function and how best to allow both clinicians and patients to understand their functions,
designs, possible benefits, and limitations.
6. Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and cost
expectations and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools would have the
greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give new insights on quality, and help reduce
costs?
• A.I. tools that engage in ‘sous-veillance’ – pointing the camera back up at institutions and
systems and holding them accountable, are more likely to generate effective actions to
move us closer to health equity (Committee on the Future of Nursing 2020–2030 et al.,
2021; Neumann & Bookey-Bassett, 2024).
• Without robust staffing regulation and efforts to ensure human-in-the-loop systems are
actually true to their word, A.I. integration as a means of promoting efficiency may
further exacerbate clinician “burn out” and health inequities. National Nurses United
(NNU) has proposed a Nurse and Patient A.I. Bill of Rights which could help guide

generation of a more robust, patient- and worker-centered approach to regulation and
human rights:
https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/sites/default/files/nnu/documents/0424_NursesPati
ents-BillOfRights_Principles-AI-Justice_flyer.pdf
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care organizations have
the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the primary administrative
hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
• ‘A.I.’ should not be imposed on patients and workers without robust leadership of the
groups most impacted by its use. Administrators should have less power in these
decisions. Models for this such as community councils and Patient Advisory Boards
could be expanded and robustly-funded to provide better governance and community
control over A.I. technologies.
8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and
accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types, data
standards, and benchmarking tools.
• Enhanced interoperability would not accelerate movement towards greater health equity
if data continue to be captured without meaningful consent or the ability of patients to
take back their data. If we move to systems that involve some form of automated
gatekeeping/triage (such as talking to an A.I. agent before seeing a human provider) we
will create entire classes of patients who cannot safely access care due to the need to
disclose characteristics or behaviors which have been increasingly criminalized and
punished by our health systems. These range from demographic information such as
information about sex or gender, to pregnancy status, to use of particular medications, to
exposure to substances, to whether someone has legal U.S. citizenship (Eubanks, 2018).
• Increased interoperability and data-sharing under the current state of U.S. regulations and
data-related civil rights (or lack thereof) is a direct threat to health equity due to the
problem of mass surveillance and carceral care systems (Sinnreich & Gilbert, 2024).
9. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see addressed by the
adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do patients and caregivers have
related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical care?
• RESOURCES AND PLANETARY HEALTH: You can teach nurses and other clinicians
to be become prompt engineers with tools like generative A.I. (genAI). But AI literacy
must include considerations of resource, such as the fact much of genAI and agentic AI is
powered by a growing number of resource-hungry data centers in people’s backyards.
For example, NY state had about ~150 data centers at my last count. Last year U.S. data
centers consumed 200 tera-watts of electricity – enough to power all of Thailand for a
year - expected to triple in the next 3 years. Its estimated data center spread in Virginia
costs citizens an extra $37/month. They can be a source of environmental racism-
poisoning communities with emissions. This is a nursing and public health problem. The
handful of proposed “zero water” centers won’t be online for at least 2 more years, by

which point it is estimated they’ll have drained another trillion gallons of water, much of
it in places where farmers’ fields are fallow, tap water has dried up, and ecosystems have
collapsed. “Green AI” pilots are built on companies’ knowledge that by 2030 in many
areas the water will already be gone. Will AI adoption matter if our communities don’t
have water & reliable electricity? We demand policies to immediately halt A.I.’s
secretive & profligate consumption of non-renewable planetary resources, or it will cost
us access to clean air and water, a reliable grid and a livable planet.
• PATIENT AND WORKER PRIVACY: Existing legislation expects individual
consumers to know how to opt into privacy, & its impossible for anyone to fully opt out
of having your data collected & sold. The EU passed GDPR legislation- the “right to be
forgotten law- which provides broad protections against invasive surveillance. But US
industry has fought GDPR & every attempt to rein in their power. When the ACA
became law it required health records be sent to a national database. Last year I sat on a
HITAC committee for a Federal Rules Task Force tasked with recommending how to do
that. A national database of all EHR data. Only certain types of reproductive health data
can be held back. I fought for that definition of repro health data to be as BROAD as
possible, so communities which tend to be targeted by surveillant A.I. and its carceral
consequences could better protect ourselves. Why? Because if you’re LGBTQ+, or an
immigrant, disabled, pregnant, in recovery or seeking or providing any of the care
increasingly criminalized, you know how easily such data can be weaponized, especially
with A.I. And since health systems violate federal law for not sharing these data, we need
to teach clinicians how to chart defensively –to think critically about what data are
captured & how patients can prevent unwanted surveillance. Which also means
rethinking policies around ambient listening in the clinic.
• CLINICIAN AUTONOMY: Surveillant A.I. impacts clinician well-being & autonomy.
Worker surveillance, similar to that applied to Amazon warehouses & gig drivers, may
help “optimize” flexible staffing but without just policy, AI-driven hyper-efficiencies can
drive workers into the ground. AI has been rolled out in more than 80% of U.S. hospitals.
A recent poll of over 2000 nurses revealed half worked at clinics that use AI to determine
patient acuity, 69% of which said their expert clinical assessments don’t match those
scores & often they can’t do anything about it (National Nurses United, n.d.). A majority
didn’t trust their employers to implement AI safely, which makes sense given what we
saw during the pandemic. As a nurse & patient safety issue, the NNU has called for a
Nurses’ & Patients’ A.I. Bill of Rights – we should operationalize this through policy.
• DATA WEAPONIZATION: With A.I. agents, every interaction is recorded. Historically,
human health care workers have resisted unjust policies like bans on gender-affirming
care or abortion. But with so much care politicized and criminalized, automated recording
AND reporting has consequences. For example, “voice biomarkers” are being trained to
detect illness & cognitive decline in people’s audio recordings. Such tech isn’t
necessarily accurate – but that doesn’t mean it won’t be weaponized by law enforcement,
insurance companies & other groups (Fagherazzi et al., 2021).
• To what extent does deployment of A.I. tools enhance accessibility and health equity for
patients with disabilities? And to what extent do they amplify technoableism? (Shew,
2024)

10. Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate the adoption
of AI as part of clinical care?
• When AI is introduced, is there any disclosure of how it works across intersectional
groups, like a model card? How can we make information about A.I., how it functions, its
performance compared to alternatives or usual care, and impacts – proximal and distal
(like resource consumption) legible and transparent to patients, care workers, and other
decision makers?
• A.I. supposed to “free up” nurses and other clinicians to provide more humanizing care.
But in the absence of robust safe staffing legislation, do you know if it is actually doing
that? Research by Frennert, Elish & others shows its a VERY MIXED bag. Don’t just ask
but MEASURE: As AI is implemented, is time with patients actually increasing? Do
individual patients get more time with their clinicians? How about clinician well-being –
is their work made easier or are they simply asked to take on more (with fewer human
colleagues present)?
• Is the invisible labor and repair work associated with A.I. roll out and maintenance
accounted for in clinical workflows and resource allocation? (Dillard‐Wright, 2019; Elish
& Watkins, 2020; Frennert et al., 2023)
• As agentic A.I. is rolled out – what’s happening in primary care, acute care, aging care,
disability care? For what patient groups/contexts is such technology actually beneficial (if
at all), and for whom is it a barrier to care/health equity? What are the systems-level
changes that are needed to ensure actual health equity (beyond implementation of A.I.)
and how can we achieve them?
• What does precepting of clinicians and care workers look like in an A.I. era and are there
enough? Are there adequate safeguards to assess clinical performance and on-going
development, especially if A.I. adoption leads to reductions in health care staffing?
• Translate Care Work. The public needs to understand the value of care work. Presently
care is mostly imagined as a billable commodity, rather relational praxis. Do institutional
policies ensure technologies support anti-racist, equitable and consentful care and
education? Does such care translate to students & employees? How can this best be
measured and assessed in the short- and long-term?
a. Are there published findings about the impact of adopted AI tools and their use clinical
care?
Yes, please see bibliography below.
b. How does the literature approach the costs, benefits, and transfers of using AI as part of
clinical care?

Tech says A.I. is revolutionary and whether you like it or not, you need to get on-board.
But revolutions are about challenging power. In our current policy landscape –A.I. is
less about revolution and more about consolidating power & resources in the hands of a
very few; entrenching an unjust, chronically understaffed, undertreated and at times,
profoundly carceral status quo.
Additional references cited above:
Bender, E. M., & Hanna, A. (2025). The A.I. Con: How to Fight Big Tech’s Hype and
Create the Future We Want. HarperCollins.
Committee on the Future of Nursing 2020–2030, National Academy of Medicine, &
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. (2021). The Future
of Nursing 2020-2030: Charting a Path to Achieve Health Equity (M. K.
Wakefield, D. R. Williams, S. L. Menestrel, & J. L. Flaubert, Eds.). National
Academies Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/25982
Crawford, K. (2024). Generative AI’s environmental costs are soaring—And mostly
secret. Nature, 626(8000), 693–693. https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-024-00478-x
Dillard‐Wright, J. (2019). Electronic health record as a panopticon: A disciplinary
apparatus in nursing practice. Nursing Philosophy, 20(2), N.PAG-N.PAG.
https://doi.org/10.1111/nup.12239
Elish, M. C., & Watkins, E. A. (2020, September 30). Repairing Innovation. Data &
Society Research Institute. Data & Society.
https://datasociety.net/library/repairing-innovation/
Eubanks, V. (2018). Automating Inequality: How High-tech Tools Profile, Police and
Punish the Poor. St. Martin’s Press.
https://us.macmillan.com/books/9781250074317/automatinginequality/

Fagherazzi, G., Fischer, A., Ismael, M., & Despotovic, V. (2021). Voice for Health: The
Use of Vocal Biomarkers from Research to Clinical Practice. Digital Biomarkers,
5(1), 78–88. https://doi.org/10.1159/000515346
Frennert, S., Petersson, L., & Erlingsdottir, G. (2023). “More” work for nurses: The
ironies of eHealth. BMC Health Services Research, 23(1), 411.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12913-023-09418-3
Frizzell, N. (2023, December 19). A Timely Reminder: ‘Invisible Labor’ Is Still Work.
Vogue. https://www.vogue.com/article/invisible-labor-is-still-work
Garofalo, L., Lenhart, A., Mukogosi, J., & Akinrinade, I. (2023). Essentially Unprotected.
Health Data and Surveillance of Essential Workers during the COVID-19
Pandemic. SSRN Electronic Journal. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4343045
Gerlich, M. (2025). AI Tools in Society: Impacts on Cognitive Offloading and the Future
of Critical Thinking. Societies, 15(1), Article 1.
https://doi.org/10.3390/soc15010006
Hickok, M., & Maslej, N. (2023). A policy primer and roadmap on AI worker surveillance
and productivity scoring tools. AI and Ethics, 3(3), 673–687.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s43681-023-00275-8
Lee, H.-P., Sarkar, A., Tankelevitch, L., Drosos, I., Rintel, S., Banks, R., & Wilson, N.
(2025). The Impact of Generative AI on Critical Thinking: Self-Reported
Reductions in Cognitive Effort and Confidence Effects From a Survey of
Knowledge Workers. CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
(CHI ’25), April 26–May 01, 2025, Yokohama, Japan. ACM, New York, NY, USA.
https://doi.org/10.%201145/3706598.3713778

McDonald, T. (2024). Do Generative Artificial Intelligence Company Strategies of
‘Moving Fast and Breaking Things’ in Civil Society Cancel Their Social Licence to
Operate? A Nurse’s Evaluation of Chatbot Impacts. Pacific Rim International
Journal of Nursing Research, 28(4), 689–706.
https://doi.org/10.60099/prijnr.2024.268964
Narayanan, A., & Kapoor, S. (2024). A.I. Snake Oil: What Artificial Intelligence Can Do,
What It Can’t, and How to Tell the Difference. Princeton University Press.
National Nurses United. (n.d.). Nurses and Patients Bill of Rights: Guiding Principles for
A.I. Justice in Nursing and Health Care. Retrieved
https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/sites/default/files/nnu/documents/0424_Nur
sesPatients-BillOfRights_Principles-AI-Justice_flyer.pdf
National Nurses United. (2023, December 20). A.I.’s impact on nursing and health care.
https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/artificial-intelligence
Neumann, P., & Bookey-Bassett, S. (2024, May 8). The health-care crisis won’t be
solved without addressing the elephant in the room: Staff workload. The
Conversation. http://theconversation.com/the-health-care-crisis-wont-be-solved-
without-addressing-the-elephant-in-the-room-staff-workload-228782
Office, U. S. G. A. (2024, October 29). Digital Surveillance of Workers: Tools, Uses, and
Stakeholder Perspectives | U.S. GAO. https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-24-
107639
Pavuluri, S., Sangal, R., Sather, J., & Taylor, R. A. (2024). Balancing act: The complex
role of artificial intelligence in addressing burnout and healthcare workforce

dynamics. BMJ Health & Care Informatics, 31(1), e101120.
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjhci-2024-101120
Ricaurte, P. (2022). Ethics for the majority world: AI and the question of violence at
scale. Media, Culture & Society, 44(4), 726–745.
https://doi.org/10.1177/01634437221099612
Schultz, M. D., Conti, L. G., & Seele, P. (2025). Digital ethicswashing: A systematic
review and a process-perception-outcome framework. AI and Ethics, 5(2), 805–
818. https://doi.org/10.1007/s43681-024-00430-9
Shew, A. (2024). Against Technoableism: Rethinking Who Needs Improvement. W.W.
Norton. https://wwnorton.com/books/9781324036661
Sinnreich, A., & Gilbert, J. (2024). The Secret Life of Data: Navigating Hype and
Uncertainty in the Age of Algorithmic Surveillance. The MIT Press.
Walker, R., Dillard-Wright, J., & Iradukunda, F. (2023). Algorithmic bias in artificial
intelligence is a problem—And the root issue is power. Nursing Outlook, 71(5).
Scopus. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.outlook.2023.102023
Zucker, E. (2020). The Case for Digital Public Infrastructure.
https://knightcolumbia.org/content/the-case-for-digital-public-infrastructure