When it comes to health technology my primary concern is privacy rights for patients and in the case of a minor, the parental rights. These are my comments:I believe in decentralized medicine. Medical care needs to be between a doctor and patient, preferably in person. I believe in the ﬁrst principle of medical ethics, the right to informed consent with the right of the patient to accept or refuse any treatment. This applies to being at the doctor’s ofﬁce or in the hospital. I believe that there should be an amendment to the U. S. Constitution with these rights. These healthcare rights are human rights for all. A doctor’s time with a patient should be spent with the doctor looking at, talking with and examining the patient, not looking at a computer screen and ﬁlling out forms. There should be no such thing as “prior approval” or authorization. If a patient’s doctor recommends something, that is ﬁnal. I believe laws should be passed that do not allow hospitals to have incentives to kill patients as they did during Covid, and they should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Make all hospitals not for proﬁt as they used to be.In case of an emergency, I want a live doctor in person taking care of me at the emergency room, not a robot or a computer screen. Not happy with the replacement of doctors with nurse practitioners at emergency rooms. Does not foster trust especially if it is something like a hear attack or stroke. Re-open rural hospitals with actual doctors in person. Time is of the essence in an emergency. Forgive medical student debt so that doctors can serve in these hospitals.Teach basic emergency medicine and ﬁrst aid in school.If reworking Medicare, there should be no such thing as “prior approval” or authorization. If a patient’s doctor recommends something, that is ﬁnal. Medicare Advantage should be ended. See articles in WSH on their defrauding of Medicare. Incorporate dental and eye in traditional Medicare. No one should have to go into a nursing home who wishes to stay in their home. Provide ways for that to happen. The U.S. is horrible to the elderly due to the unregulated greed here. I am glad about the Maga focus on chronic disease. I have not heard ANY discussion on the HUGE chronic diseases of osteoporosis and loneliness and poverty. When will these be addressed? Most of the research on osteoporosis seems to have been done by big pharma who want to sell their drugs which don’t work. What about loneliness? I’m in favor of a social reorganization of neighborhoods as co-housing communities governed by owner resident consensus and not an HOA or a vulture capital ﬁrm. Going to farmer’s markets for local, organic food is great for those who live near one and for the those who can afford it. I don’t hear solutions for everyone else. Studying permaculture many years ago, the solution to hunger - and community- is community gardens/community greenhouses and community farms. How about encouraging community gardens in 
neighborhoods and schools, in both low and high areas? It is great exercise for the kids and brings neighbors together. The idea of having family to count on for one’s community is not an option or safe for many.If there is any need for data for a legit purpose, the doctor must ask for the patient’s permission and ALL Identifying information such as name and address MUST be omitted from the data.There should be absolutely no digital ID requirement for any human being to access healthcare in America, ever.No one should be forced to provide any biometric data to access healthcare in America, ever.Under no circumstances should any wearable technology ever be mandated on any human for any healthcare purpose. Informed consent must always be the standard. Wearable technology should never be connected to the internet with all the EMF danger.Thank you for your time and consideration.