Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS)
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC)
Subject: Submission of Marketing Materials in Response to CMS RFI [CMS-0042-NC], “Request for
Information; Health Technology Ecosystem”
Dear CMS and ONC Team,
We are pleased to submit our response to the Request for Information [CMS-0042-NC] titled
"Health Technology Ecosystem," published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS)
and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology (ASTP/ONC).
Guidehouse is a leading global provider of advisory services, supporting a range of capabilities in
management, technology, and risk consulting. We work broadly across the healthcare industry
ecosystem, serving federal and state government agencies, payers, providers, and life sciences
companies. Through this work, we offer a 360o perspective on how to optimize health technology,
processes, business models, and regulations to drive efficiency and quality across the industry.
We are grateful for the opportunity to present CMS information about how Guidehouse could
support initiatives that address many of the questions in the subject RFI. Our health technology
solutions align closely with the objectives outlined in the RFI, particularly in areas such as patient
empowerment, data interoperability, care navigation, and value-based care. By giving consumers
greater control over their healthcare experiences and ensuring new technologies are evaluated with
equity and access in mind, we aim to close gaps in technical functionality and service. Moreover,
our expertise in interoperability standards and stakeholder engagement reflects our commitment to
fostering a connected and effective health technology ecosystem.
Below is a sampling of recent, relevant examples of the capabilities and expertise Guidehouse can
deploy to CMS to support your technology journey:
Advanced Data Analytics and Interoperability Solutions:
• Beneficiary Data Enrichment (Reference: RFI Question TD-2): VitalAudit® is a proprietary
data enrichment and remediation service designed to help public and commercial sector
organizations identify and confirm deceased individuals across the U.S. and locate their
beneficiaries. Unlike other solutions that rely on external data connections, VitalAudit
curates data in-house before it is used to support client work, ensuring comprehensive
Guidehouse Inc., 1676 International Dr, Ste 800; McLean, VA 22102
www.guidehouse.com

customization options and enabling deployments behind agency firewalls. Learn.more.in.
Appendix.A¡
• Predictive Analytics for Population Health Management (Reference: RFI Question TD-2): Our
advanced analytics tools leverage multiple data sets to predict patient outcomes, identify
high-risk populations, and support proactive care management, ultimately reducing costs
and improving health outcomes. Learn more: Modernizing Data Management in Public
Health
Patient Empowerment and Care Navigation:
• Patient-Centered Platforms (Reference: RFI Questions PC-1 to PC-7): We develop and
deploy cloud-based technology platforms that empower patients with access to their health
records, personalized health insights, and tools for care management. These platforms are
designed with user-friendly interfaces and mobile accessibility to ensure broad patient
engagement. Learn more: Elevating Patient Access and the Consumer Experience
• Care Coordination Tools (Reference: RFI Question PR-7): Our solutions facilitate effective
care coordination among healthcare providers, ensuring that patients receive timely and
appropriate care. This includes integrating care plans, tracking patient progress, and
enabling communication across clinical care teams. Learn more: Leveraging the Advanced
Practice Providers Care Model
We welcome the opportunity to engage further with CMS and ONC to support future initiatives or
provide additional information. Should you have any questions or require further details, please do
not hesitate to contact us.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Greg Hafer
Partner
Guidehouse Inc.
1676 International Drive, Ste 800
McLean, VA 22102
Telephone 202-270-3275
ghafer@guidehouse.com
www.guidehouse.com
Guidehouse Inc., 1676 International Dr, Ste 800; McLean, VA 22102
www.guidehouse.com

VitalAudit® Beneficiary Data
Enrichment for Government Agencies
Monitor benefit recipient mortality, locate missing beneficiaries,
and reduce improper payments
Local, state, and federal agencies often face challenges in collecting and verifying data on deceased benefit
recipients. Ensuring that government payments reach only the intended recipients is a complex task, requiring access
to accurate and up-to-date information. Without a reliable way to identify decedents and their beneficiaries, agencies
risk misallocating taxpayer dollars to improper payments.
By enhancing payee data with nationwide state, federal, and commercial sources, agencies can optimize and
streamline payment operations while combatting fraud, waste, and abuse. VitalAudit® is a proprietary data enrichment
and remediation service designed to help public and commercial sector organizations identify and confirm deceased
individuals across the U.S., and locate their beneficiaries. Unlike other solutions that rely on external data connections,
VitalAudit curates data in-house before it is used to support client work, ensuring comprehensive customization
options and enabling deployments behind agency firewalls.
Key Features and Benefits:
• Agency Impact – A client leveraged VitalAudit to uncover more than
$3 million in improper payments to deceased benefit recipients within Nationwide
98%
mortality
only a few weeks.
coverage
• Tailored Approach – Granular, end-to-end customization enables
agencies to adjust confidence thresholds and reporting requirements
Reported
to their specific needs. 80% within 10 days
of mortality
• Industry Trusted – VitalAudit is widely used in the commercial sector
by financial institutions, including 4 of the top 5 life insurers, banking
Records
technology providers, asset managers, and other organizations.
150M+
processed per
month
With exclusive data partnerships and a proven approach, VitalAudit leads
the market in decedent data accuracy and coverage. By integrating
VitalAudit into their operations, agencies can strengthen payment integrity
VitalAudit® augments internal
for the good of every American.
data to help optimize operations,
combat fraud, and create a better
By combining Guidehouse’s death audit and beneficiary locate capabilities,
customer experience.
VitalAudit® standardizes, augments, and remediates contact information
in an intelligent and cost-effective way, achieving an industry-leading
98% nationwide mortality coverage curated from more than 30,000 state,
federal, and exclusive commercial repositories. The solution captures most
mortalities within 10 days of death through a regulatory-compliant, secure,
and transparent process resulting in measurable and immediate cost
savings for local, state, and federal agencies.
guidehouse.com

CAPTURE MANAGE USE
Intuitive and accessible results to reduce
overpayments and better manage
participants
Real-World Consumer VitalAudit®
Data Data
Secure System Platform Fraud Know Your
Detection Customer
VitalAudit®
Match Expert Client Customer Reduce Customer
Algorithms Review Data Overpayments Experience
Superior Data
Comprehensive and curated nationwide data updated
daily from tens of thousands of sources, including
exclusive private sources.
Reliable Results
Sophisticated algorithms to establish accurate
matches and accommodate for data variations such
as nicknames and misspellings.
Actionable Insights
Transparent data sources, accessible match
confidence scores, and tailored heuristics illuminate
a clear path from insights to action.
Seamless Integration
Multiple delivery options available, including privacy-
enhancing encryption and on-premises deployment
for secure processing of customer data.
VitalAudit® is a core component of a comprehensive suite of advisory, technology, and managed services solutions
provided by Guidehouse. Our experts serve as your partner, delivering tailored, effective solutions at every stage.
Contacts About Guidehouse
Jim Ouellette, Director Guidehouse is a global consultancy providing advisory, technology, and managed services to the
commercial and public sectors. Purpose-built to serve the national security, financial services,
Unclaimed Property & VitalAudit Leader
healthcare, energy, and infrastructure industries, the firm collaborates with leaders to outwit
james.ouellette@guidehouse.com
complexity and achieve transformational changes that meaningfully shape the future.
guidehouse.com
James Moore, Director
guidehouse.com/industries/financial-services
Financial Services
jamoore@guidehouse.com linkedin.com/showcase/guidehouse-financial-services
© 2025 Guidehouse Inc. All rights reserved. This content is for general information purposes only and should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors.