February 12, 2026
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary
United States Department of Health and Human Services
Hubert H. Humphrey Building
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: HHS Health Sector RFI [RIN 0955-AA13]
Dear Secretary Kennedy,
On behalf of URAC, thank you for the opportunity to provide comments on the
Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Request for Information
(RFI) entitled, “Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
Part of Clinical Care.” URAC applauds HHS’ interest in studying and addressing
the expanding use of artificial intelligence (AI) in clinical care and the
corresponding impacts on patients, health care providers, and existing HHS
regulatory structures. The use of AI in healthcare settings has the potential to
advance patient care and reduce waste and inefficiency in ways that were
previously outside the realm of possibility. However, the advent and proliferation
of new healthcare AI tools is often occurring outside the scope of existing laws
and regulations, creating situations where patients and providers lack the
transparency and knowledge of AI tools used in their care. I write to you today to
highlight the role that healthcare accrediting organizations can play in enhancing
transparency and providing guardrails for the use of AI in clinical care while also
ensuring pathways to innovation that allow for continued development of
important new healthcare AI tools. As outlined below, URAC believes that
existing proven healthcare accrediting organizations with a history of being
endorsed and reviewed by HHS can play an instrumental role in ensuring the safe
and effective use of AI in healthcare through the development and application of
private sector AI accreditation programs that emphasize quality, transparency,
and safety.
A. Background on URAC and Accreditation
URAC is the independent leader in promoting healthcare quality through
accreditation, measurement, and innovation. URAC is a non-profit organization
that uses evidence-based measures and develops standards through inclusive
engagement with a wide range of stakeholders committed to improving the
quality of healthcare. Our portfolio of accreditation and certification programs
spans the healthcare industry, addressing digital health, healthcare management
and operations, health plans, pharmacies, and more. URAC is a deemed
accreditor recognized by HHS and state agencies throughout the country.
In September 2025, URAC announced the release of the nation’s first healthcare-
specific AI accreditation aimed at creating a framework for evaluating and
addressing the development and use of AI tools in healthcare settings. URAC’s
Artificial Intelligence in Health Care Accreditation (AIHC) was created following
months of engagement with leading national experts on AI matters that included
extensive deliberation evaluating current uses of AI in healthcare, assessing the

development and implementation of healthcare AI tools, and addressing
concerns about the use and development of AI from patients and providers. Our
engagement with AI experts, developers, and users throughout this process
highlighted many of the concerns identified by HHS in the RFI. Namely, the
importance of ensuring safe and effective AI that prevents waste, fraud, and
abuse, while also ensuring that “AI innovations are not diminished” and that AI
tools may continue to evolve with the industry “to meet the needs of a changing
healthcare system.”1
Accreditation is uniquely situated to achieve these goals. Federal and state
agencies rely on the value of accreditation to ensure quality and safety across the
healthcare system, while also preserving the ability to adapt to industry changes
and developments in new technologies and applications.
In the RFI released by HHS, the agency requests public input on challenges and
opportunities facing the use of AI in clinical care. URAC’s ongoing collaborative
discussions with AI industry representatives and experts indicated heightened
concerns in areas such as privacy, transparency, and safety. Patients and
caregivers have fundamental questions about the integrity of their health
information and personal data, the use of AI tools without their awareness or
consent, and the reliability of outputs derived from AI applications due to bias,
drift, and hallucinations. Historically, private sector accreditation such as the
AIHC program offered by URAC has played a prominent role in ensuring safe and
effective health care. HHS and other federal and state agencies currently utilize
private sector accreditation as a means of supplementing regulatory provisions
with additional quality and safety standards that evolve along with industry
developments and new technologies. Seeking care at an accredited organization
can provide peace of mind that the organization has developed processes to
promote appropriate use of confidential information and support quality patient
care when using AI.
B. URAC Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Accreditation
URAC’s AIHC Accreditation was developed to provide a dynamic tool for payers,
purchasers, and regulators to address the gap between the real-world use of AI
and existing regulatory structures intended to protect patients and providers.
Unlike traditional regulatory approaches, private sector accreditation offerings
such as URAC’s AIHC program promote best practices, provide much-needed
guardrails, and protect patients, while also allowing for innovation, information
sharing, and the development of trustworthy AI systems. Accreditation offers an
important layer of oversight through detailed review processes that provide
patients and regulators with reliable and adaptable AI guardrails.
In recent months, URAC has worked closely with leading industry experts and AI
stakeholders to develop the first accreditation for AI in healthcare, resulting in a
program that will help to build trust in the use of AI, reduce risk, and validate
safe and fair health care AI. To facilitate development of URAC’s new AIHC
Accreditation, we convened a multidisciplinary advisory group to support
development of the program and provide much-needed insight on the use and
1 Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care,
90 Fed. Reg. 244 (December 23, 2025), p. 60109.

development of new AI tools impacting health care. The 29-member advisory
group represented a broad segment of the health care industry, including
providers, hospitals, health plans, developers, legal experts, policy groups, and
associations. The feedback and insight from this group of AI leaders and experts
helped shape URAC’s AIHC Accreditation and provided standards that reflect the
real-world needs of the full segment of AI users in health care.
Based on feedback from AI leaders, URAC created an AIHC Accreditation based
on a modular approach that provides specific standards and processes for both
developers and users of AI systems and tools to ensure that standards are
relevant and meaningful. URAC’s new accreditation is structured to emphasize a
common set of standards that apply across the AI spectrum, emphasizing risk
management, operations and infrastructure, and performance monitoring and
improvement. URAC’s modular approach to AIHC Accreditation affords the
opportunity to create additional standards applicable to developers, users, or
both. This adaptability of the accreditation process and standards makes
accreditation well-suited to addressing the broad scope of AI tools currently in
the market in addition to those being developed for future use.
C. HHS Steps to Support Private Sector Activities to Promote
Innovative and Effective AI Use
URAC is proud of its role as an HHS-deemed accreditor and our work with HHS
to ensure that health plans participating in state and federal programs meet the
highest standards for patient safety and quality. Private sector activities such as
accreditation have historically played a prominent role in healthcare quality by
supplementing federal and state statutes and regulations to provide additional
standards for quality and transparency relied on by public programs. HHS
specifically requests in the RFI that commenters address ways that HHS can best
support private sector activities such as accreditation that promote the innovative
and effective use of AI in healthcare. We respectfully offer the following
suggestions:
1. Implementation of AI accreditation requirements in future
HHS rulemaking – HHS has historically incorporated private sector
accreditation standards for applicable healthcare entities through the
formal rulemaking process. Examples of prior instances of formal
rulemaking that incorporate private sector accreditation include
requirements for QHP issuers,2 independent dispute resolution entities,3
home infusion therapy services,4 and Medicare Advantage health plan
issuers.5 In addition to HHS, states throughout the country utilize private
market accreditation to supplement regulation in various areas of
healthcare. Accreditation is a widely-used and historically relied-upon
supplement to traditional regulation with the ability to adapt and change
quickly to address industry developments.
2. Encourage voluntary adoption of healthcare AI accreditation
among users and developers – In addition to the adoption of
2 45 C.F.R. § 156.275 (2013)
3 45 C.F.R. § 149.510 (2024)
4 45 C.F.R. § 488.1030 (2022)
5 45 C.F.R. § 422.157 (2000)

regulatory requirements that rely on private sector accreditation of AI in
healthcare settings, HHS should take steps to encourage voluntary
adoption of private sector accreditation among users and developers of
healthcare AI. HHS can achieve this goal by incorporating AI
accreditation into agency metrics for AI development and deployment,
endorsing accreditation in funding and grant opportunities, and
prioritizing agency adoption and endorsement of AI tools that are
accredited by recognized and qualified private sector accreditors.
3. Exercise existing communication levers by utilizing the HHS
webpage to establish a public-facing website with information
on AI accreditation – HHS has additional options to encourage
private sector accreditation of AI technologies outside the formal
rulemaking process, such as the development of new online resources for
users and developers of AI tools that includes best practices and
considerations that highlight the protections offered by accredited AI
tools. In the absence of formal regulatory requirements for the
accreditation of AI tools and developers, HHS has the ability to use its
existing authority to establish online resources that provide patients and
providers with information about the role that AI plays in their
healthcare, the advantages of accreditation, and the patient and provider
protections contained in private sector AI accreditation standards.
Historically, HHS has undertaken similar efforts to advance public
awareness of the patient and provider protections provided by accredited
entities. In 2024, HHS established a public-facing resource highlighting
the role of telehealth accreditation and the benefits of receiving care from
accredited entities.6 This online resource contains both clinical and
training information for providers, patient information, and an overview
of standards applied by accrediting organizations. Similar resources for
AI accreditation can increase patient and provider confidence in AI tools
being deployed in clinical settings.
4. Include URAC AIHC Accreditation within the shared
repository of procurement best practices identified in OMB M-
25-22 – HHS has the ability to encourage private sector accreditation by
defining AI accreditation as a procurement best practice for
consideration when the agency drafts and implements new funding and
purchasing agreements. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
endorsed and emphasized the need for cross-functional collaboration
across federal agencies to avoid obstacles and risks in the purchase of
new AI technologies.7 URAC recommends that HHS take steps to
endorse private sector accreditation as a procurement best practice and
include AI accreditation within the tools and resources that the agency
contributes to the OMB shared repository of AI best practices.
5. Update procurement language to mandate or encourage AIHC
Accreditation for potential federal contractors in accordance
with the HHS Artificial Intelligence Strategy and M-25-21 –
Federal agencies such as HHS are in the unique position to shape
6 Telehealth Accreditation, United States Department of Health and Human Services, Introduction to Telehealth
Accreditation (September 2024), available at https://telehealth.hhs.gov/providers/best-practice-
guides/telehealth-accreditation
7 Office of Management and Budget, Exec. Office of the President, Memorandum M-25-22, Driving Efficient
Acquisition of Artificial Intelligence in Government (2025)

industry standards outside of the formal rulemaking process by
incorporating quality and safety standards withing contracting and
procurement requirements. In providing guidance for the use of AI by
federal agencies in OMB Memorandum M-25-21 (Accelerating Federal
Use of AI through Innovation, Governance, and Public Trust), OMB
emphasized removing barriers to innovation while also accelerating
responsible AI adoption.8 Private sector accreditation can address both of
these priorities when incorporated into procurement standards for
agency contracting as a way of ensuring that HHS vendors and partners
adhere to robust standards for patient safety and data protection.
6. Incorporate private accreditation standards into efforts to
promote adoption of AI tools established in the HHS Artificial
Intelligence Strategy – HHS has previously established as a pillar of
its AI strategy the importance of enabling care and modernizing public
health delivery for better outcomes.9 In doing so, HHS envisions steps
such as the provision of federal grants, additional research and discovery
efforts, and the role of accountability. Across divisions, HHS has the
ability to encourage private sector accreditation by including AI
accreditation as a requirement for federal funding opportunities aimed at
establishing guidelines to maximize the potential benefits of AI use while
minimizing security and privacy risks.
7. Include private accreditation as a best practice or standard
operating procedure under the HHS AI Compliance Plan –
Among the tools available for HHS to encourage private sector
approaches to AI such as accreditation, the option exists for HHS to
adopt AI accreditation as a best practice or standard operating procedure
under the HHS AI Compliance Plan.10 The Plan notes that HHS envisions
the development and release of best practices as a means of fostering
public trust and removing barriers to the use of safe and effective AI
tools. URAC encourages HHS to define accreditation as a best practice or
standard operating procedure for agency efforts to adopt and implement
new regulatory structures and procurement standards for AI tools. The
endorsement of private sector accreditation as a best practice satisfies
HHS goals of promoting both transparent and efficient use of AI.
8. Provide guidance to state programs on presumed high-impact
AI use that encourages accreditation as a standard for review –
Understanding the importance of developing regulatory and sub-
regulatory approaches that allow the AI industry to evolve and develop
innovative new tools for patient care, HHS has emphasized the
importance of “transparent, risk-proportionate controls”, indicating that
certain “high-impact” AI applications are ripe for additional engagement
due to their significant impact on health outcomes, individual rights, or
public trust. URAC encourages HHS to incorporate AI accreditation as a
standard for review when considering high-impact AI activities.
Examples of steps that HHS could take include a prominent role for
8 Office of Management and Budget, Exec. Office of the President, Memorandum M-25-21, Accelerating
Federal Use of AI through Innovation, Governance, and Public Trust (2025)
9 United States Department of Health and Human Services, Artificial Intelligence (AI) Strategy, p.14 (2025),
available at https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/hhs-artificial-intelligence-strategy.pdf
10 United States Department of Health and Human Services, Compliance Plan for OMB Memorandum M-25-21
(2025), available at https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/2025-hhs-ai-compliance-plan.pdf

accreditation as a means of independent review of AI activities as
envisioned in the HHS Artificial Intelligence Strategy. I encourage HHS
to consider the role of private sector accreditation in providing guidance
to state Medicaid programs that include high-impact AI uses.
D. Conclusion
URAC thanks the Department of Health and Human Services for the opportunity
to comment on the critical and evolving role of artificial intelligence in
healthcare, in particular ways to support private sector activities that promote
innovative and effective use of AI. The role of private sector accreditation as a
supplement to federal and state laws and regulations is well-founded in
healthcare and insurance laws throughout the country. Accreditation is
particularly well-situated as an evolving set of requirements and obligations that
can adapt to changes in technology and uses in ways that statutes and regulations
cannot, making it an ideal tool for HHS to consider as it seeks to address the
expanding role of AI in clinical care.
If you wish to discuss this further, I encourage you to reach out to URAC directly.
Please feel free to contact me at sgriffin@urac.org at your convenience.
Sincerely,
Shawn Griffin, M.D.
President and CEO of URAC