CITYBLOCK HEALTH
495 FLATBUSH AVENUE 5C
BROOKLYN, NY 11225
February 23, 2026
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244-1850
Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information regarding accelerating the adoption
and use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) as part of clinical care. Please accept the following comments from
Cityblock Health, Inc. and Cityblock Medical Practice, P.A. (Cityblock). Cityblock offers a fully integrated
solution that directly delivers clinical care to some of the highest-risk Medicaid and dually eligible populations
with complex needs. Powered by advanced technology that provides its care team with a data-driven
understanding of member needs and risks, Cityblock has demonstrated industry-leading engagement and
member retention and has achieved meaningful reductions in avoidable hospital readmissions and reduced
total cost of care. Cityblock currently serves more than 100,000 members, and partners with national and
regional Medicaid and Medicare Advantage health plans and health systems across more than ten states.
What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its adoption and use in
clinical care?
Federal AI Preemption
Issue: State-specific AI regulation creates a patchwork system that increases administrative burden, introduces
new complexity, disincentivizes innovation, and limits scalability of AI tools.
Proposal: Release preemptive federal guidance, similar to HIPAA, and / or work with Congress to create
legislation that creates a national framework for AI usage in healthcare. This would align well with steps the
Administration has already begun to take via the AI Action Plan.
● For example, the December 2025 Executive Order (EO), Ensuring a National Policy Framework for
Artificial Intelligence, focuses on centralizing AI policy at the federal level to prevent a patchwork
framework of state-specific AI regulations. This EO created an AI Litigation Task Force within the
Department of Justice to identify and challenge state regulations that inhibit AI innovation and
adoption.
● Establishing a healthcare specific AI framework in conjunction with the Task Force would encourage
provider adoption by providing a clear roadmap for compliance and best practices in clinical settings.
1

Collection of Consent for AI/HIPAA
Issue: There is currently no guidance clarifying how patient consent can be obtained for providers to use AI
tools for Treatment, Payment, and Operations (TPO) purposes that are subject to HIPAA requirements. The
lack of clarity regarding consent collection for AI tools could inhibit provider organizations from implementing
AI tools or default to the most restrictive use due to perceived legal or compliance risk.
Proposal: Release federal guidance on collection of patient consent for providers to use AI tools in their care,
including any applicable data sharing and communication as well as clinical care delivery, for TPO purposes.
For example, federal guidance could allow providers to collect, as a component of HIPAA consent, patient
consent that includes use of AI tools.
HIPAA AI Models - Zero Data Retention vs PHI Redaction
Issue: Currently, no federal guidance exists regarding how data must be stored by third-party vendors (i.e.
contractors that are not HIPAA “covered entities” and that are storing or processing data for providers), e.g. if
Zero Data Retention policies are required versus PHI redaction. This lack of clarity limits innovation by adding
complexity and duration when setting up partnerships between AI companies and providers, and can
disincentivize collaboration between those entities. The ambiguity also increases risk of patient harm if data
are stored improperly - including if PHI is passed into AI models, retained in perpetuity, and potentially used as
training data which could lead to unauthorized access to or use of PHI.
Proposal: Release federal guidance that provides direction for providers working with third-party technology
companies regarding data retention requirements.
Accurately categorize PHI and non-PHI data sets even when data is integrated for VBC use
Issue: Once a healthcare entity ingests any identifiable data, that data is then treated as PHI once linked to PHI
even if it is not related to health. This classification creates a barrier to integrated care, incentivizing
organizations to silo data to prevent less sensitive information from being governed by the most restrictive
sharing requirements. For example, under current data sharing requirements, providers are prohibited from
sharing a patientʼs location with a transportation service provider even if the provider is organizing
transportation for the patient. This is especially burdensome for value-based care (VBC) providers that are
invested in offering evidence-based prevention and must gather information related to access to nutritional
food, transportation, etc to accurately assess and address patientsʼ needs.
2026 | www.cityblock.com
2

Proposal: Create a carve-out for value-based care providers to allow data that does not meet federal PHI
criteria at 45 CFR § 164.514 to remain classified as Personally Identifiable Information (or non-PHI), even after
being ingested by a VBC provider. This will allow VBC providers to better collaborate with non-medical
community partners by making it easier to share data without it automatically being treated like PHI, and
reduce the administrative burden for both the providers and the community-based organizations. This would
also create greater flexibility for provider-patient communication, since non-PHI is not subject to the same
robust sharing requirements as PHI. For example, if non-PHI data could be more easily shared, organizations
could tailor patient communication to account for their individual concerns, such as sending personalized
directions to a clinic via public transportation for members who do not have access to reliable transportation.
TCPA HIPAA Exemption Extended to use of AI Generative Voice Tech
Issue: The ATDS (automatic telephone dialing system) definition used in the Telephone Consumer Protection
Act (TCPA) was developed before the advent of AI voice technology, leaving ambiguity of how AI voice
technology should be regulated. Without clear guidance, providers default to the strictest interpretation of the
TCPA HIPAA exemption, which risks limiting innovation with AI voice technology. This uncertainty can hinder
adoption of sophisticated AI voice technologies, such as automated outbound scheduling and administrative
reminders, which could otherwise reduce provider burden.
Proposal: Preserve the TCPA HIPAA exemption and expand it to include use of AI generative voice technology
for non-clinical purposes, like appointment reminders and other simple healthcare messaging. AI generative
voice technology has the potential to reduce administrative burden and allow providers to focus solely on care
delivery, versus administrative tasks.
CMS Clarity/ Sandbox - Frontier/ New Model Research
Issue: There is no federal regulatory clarity or guidance for healthcare providers who want to work with early
stage frontier models. This puts healthcare providers at a disadvantage compared to other industries, as AI
companies are incentivized to focus on industries with clearer guidelines for testing and use. States are
beginning to propose legal frameworks for frontier models with potential healthcare impact; creating a
patchwork system by state further complicates innovation and scalability for AI models.
Proposal: Release federal guidance allowing experimental authority for healthcare providers to develop
sandbox environments as a testing ground for frontier models. Leverage best practices from other examples
working with sensitive data such as employing zero data retention policies.
What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to incentivize the
2026 | www.cityblock.com
3

effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to
augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and applicable Code
of Federal Regulations citations.
Patient Engagement and Communication
Issue: Existing security regulations limit usability of generative AI for personalized communication, e.g. text
messages to assist with patient engagement. Specifically, 45 CFR Part 160 and Part 164 (The HIPAA Security
Rule) limit the ability to reference PHI and leverage generative AI for meaningful conversations, reminders, and
engagement through text messages and other methods absent a secure and encrypted platform.
● Existing regulation dates back to the 2000s and was not designed for the current technology
landscape and AI capabilities.
● The original Security Rule was not written at a time when text messaging was a preferred channel of
conversations, therefore limiting a modern patient's ability to engage with a medical provider absent a
secure portal or app. For example, under a strict interpretation of the Security Rule, a patient
appointment reminder text message could not include the name of the patientʼs medical professional.
● Requiring patients to log into specific applications or portals to review care team messages and
reminders creates unnecessary barriers and can negatively impact patient engagement. Lower average
digital literacy and access to broadband or Wi-Fi could disproportionately affect vulnerable
populations like rural communities or low-income individuals.
Proposal:
● Issue federal guidance around common industry practices for communication of clinical information
that is not PHI or is not clearly defined as PHI; e.g., example of texting prescription fill information to
patients using the first three letters of the drug name.
● Issue federal guidance around the process for patient consent to those communications, including via
text and social media, and the opportunity for patients to consent to communication via multiple
types of media using a single form or approval.
● As remote monitoring devices continue to grow in popularity and usage, federal guidance around
real-time provider-patient communication based on device data will be useful. Modalities such as
texting can amplify the advantages of sharing real-time data with providers and lead to faster patient
engagement.
42 CFR Part II Data Sharing
Issue: 42 CFR Part II Final Rule, released in 2024, expanded the liabilities for potential harm due to sharing any
medical records that may contain substance use disorder. This disincentivizes and creates barriers to data
sharing among providers, which can fragment service delivery, leading to inefficient care and poorer health
2026 | www.cityblock.com
4

outcomes.
Proposal: Create an exemption for value-based care (VBC) providers to simplify the data sharing process,
improve care coordination, and encourage innovation within VBC arrangements. Integrating behavioral and
physical healthcare is fundamental to delivering value-based care. Aligning Part 2 data with existing HIPAA
standards will enable a more holistic approach to integrated care and ensure that sensitive health data is
protected by the same robust privacy guardrails used across the rest of the healthcare system.
Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and accelerate the
development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types, data standards, and benchmarking
tools.
Closing Quality Gaps
Issue: Currently, data from Qualified Health Information Networks (QHIN) can be used by providers to
supplement existing data for a more comprehensive view of patient care and health care needs. However,
supplemental data from QHINs often cannot be used to meet quality metrics and close gaps. The National
Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) outlines that data used to close quality gaps must come directly from
a patientʼs medical chart, meaning data from a QHIN is not acceptable for this purpose, unless verified through
onerous or expensive processes.
Proposal: Release federal guidance updating data verification and attestation processes to minimize
administrative friction for providers utilizing QHINs. While QHIN participants currently attest to data validity at
the point of origin, downstream users are often required to re-verify that same data when using it to close
quality gaps. Centralizing verification authority under a body like CMS or NCQA would create a "verify once,
use many" framework, incentivizing robust data sharing and operational efficiency.
Longitudinal Care Delivery and Coordination
Issue: In the short term, integrated care delivery is hindered because key data are unstructured, lack of
availability of a truly holistic longitudinal record facilitated by interoperability, and no means to identify the
same member across the multitude of records.
Proposal: CMS could encourage interoperability and strengthen the digital health ecosystem by embedding
robust data-sharing expectations into future guidance, ensuring that information follows the patient across
the continuum of care.
● With enhanced interoperability, VBP providers like Cityblock can shorten time to market, enable
2026 | www.cityblock.com
5

real-world research with large, comparable cohorts, and more easily coordinate care across multiple
health systems.
● Innovations such as AI-powered care coordination, AI copilots, and AI first care teams working across
fragmented systems represents a transformative opportunity. Aggregating FHIR-based data across
medical, behavioral health, long-term services and supports, and community-based organizations
could help enable the use of AI to improve continuity and coherence in the member experience,
generate actionable care plans, and ensure synchronization across different actors.
● Expanded access to claims data, Admission Discharge Transfer (ADT) events, behavioral health
information, medications, lab results, diagnoses, assessments, referrals and social care needs via FHIR
based APIs and via national exchange infrastructure will make it easier to identify gaps in care and
manage risk more effectively in real time.
● When paired with transparent benchmarking frameworks like HEDIS metrics, interoperability expands
from a compliance requirement into a strategic driver for continuous quality improvement and
evidence-based care delivery.
● Improved interoperability will also support the ability to turn unstructured care delivery information
into discrete signals for ingestion into machine learning and AI models. Consistent, discrete data with
standardized definitions helps turn unstructured data into discrete signals making it more ingestible
for machine learning and AI models
● Additionally, the inverse is potentially even more impactful, as AI will actually be able to accelerate
interoperability by leveraging large language models (LLMs) to execute on feature extraction from
unstructured data and smooth over any schema differences between systems. In other words, LLMs
are very effective at translating unstructured data into structured data, particularly when there are
standardized definitions for structured data points.
What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see addressed by the adoption and use
of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do patients and caregivers have related to the adoption and use of
AI in clinical care?
Patient and Caregiver Feedback
Issue: Successful use of AI in healthcare delivery hinges on the active buy-in and trust of both patients and
caregivers.
Proposal: Within CMS models, include stakeholder engagement efforts with patients and caregivers as new AI
tools are introduced into the healthcare experience. Patients and caregivers have already raised several
opportunities for AI to address existing challenges within health care, as well as some concerns regarding the
2026 | www.cityblock.com
6

loss of human connection.
● Patients and caregivers express interest in AI adoption in clinical care to support administrative tasks
such as appointment scheduling, identifying in-network providers, and interpreting coverage.
● Thereʼs also an opportunity for AI solutions to support with real time translation for non-English
language speakers, and plain language explanation of medical information and treatment options.
● Patients are comfortable with technology as a tool to improve continuity and collaboration, for
example AI tools that enable care teams to holistically work together and close the loop from prior
conversations.
● However, patients and caregivers have expressed concerns about the loss of human connection and
empathy with the advent of AI solutions, the ineptitude of AI tools to solve their problems relative to
providers, and the biases inherent in algorithms that AI uses.
Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate the adoption of AI as part of
clinical care?
Population Specific Data for AI Training
Issue: Most AI tools are trained on commercial insurance data or academic medical center populations. The
functionality of an AI model is a direct reflection of its training data. AI tools should be trained on
population-specific data; models derived from commercial or academic populations that fail to account for
the unique socio-clinical profile of Medicaid beneficiaries and dually eligible individuals could exacerbate
existing inequities and inefficiencies.
Proposal: CMS could incentivize or fund creation of realistic synthetic datasets that preserve the statistical
properties (e.g. coverage gaps, state variation) of real Medicaid data, and publish them openly.
● CMS could also encourage public performance reporting for Medicaid AI tools, including metrics
stratified by race, language, disability, and dual-eligible status, to create market pressure for
vendors to actually train on Medicaid data.
Provider-Led AI Research
Issue: Investment in AI solutions developed outside of the health care system often need to be retrofit and
incorporated into care models by providers, and may not improve pain points fully or at all. AI should be
developed by providers within the system, for seamless and effective integration into care delivery.
Proposal: CMS could incentivize and encourage provider-led AI research and development through
2026 | www.cityblock.com
7

demonstrations or the creation of AI Sandboxes that allow providers to test AI tools. These sandboxes could
provide a temporary 'safe harbor' to allow for real-world testing of how AI can streamline workflows and
improve patient-provider engagement. Providers are best positioned to develop AI tools that make care more
rather than less personalized. Innovative providers are already finding ways to use AI to reduce the amount of
paperwork doctors have to do, giving patients more time with human providers.
AI Research
Issue: Lack of AI research and data focused on Medicaid settings risks developing tools that do not function as
well for, or miss opportunities, to improve Medicaid care models.
Solution: CMS could offer encouragement, or potentially a financial incentive, to evaluate AI within Medicaid
settings. Specifically evaluating AI performance in Medicaid settings, where demographics, comorbidity
patterns and care utilization differ from other populations, would be helpful.
● Evaluations should measure not just clinical outcomes but also clinician adoption, health equity
impacts, patient trust and cost-effectiveness.
● Implementation science research to evaluate workflow integration would be useful.
○ For example, tracking metrics like clinician adoption of tools, alert fatigue, override rates, and
patient experience measures would help stakeholders better understand the utility of these
solutions in the Medicaid and dually eligible populations.
● An approved framework or guidance on AI safety will likely accelerate provider adoption. This can be
developed through research that focuses on creating standardized approaches for AI "labeling" and
usage regulations.
Please do not hesitate to reach out if we can be of any assistance. It would be our pleasure to discuss these
comments, and we appreciate the chance to share them.
Sincerely,
Alberto Lopez Toledo
Chief Technology Officer, Cityblock Health, Inc.
alberto.lopez@cityblock.com
2026 | www.cityblock.com
8