STATE OF WASHINGTON
HEALTH CARE AUTHORITY
626 8th Avenue, SE • P.O. Box 45502 • Olympia, Washington 98504-5502
June 16, 2025
Department of Health and Human Services
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
RE: Washington State Health Care Authority Comments on Request for Information;
Health Technology Ecosystem
The Washington State Health Care Authority (HCA), the single state Medicaid agency in
Washington, offers the following comments and recommendations in response to the request
from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) for information regarding the Health
Technology Ecosystem. See 90 Fed. Reg. 21034 (May 16, 2025).
In response to Patient Needs:
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and
manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take?
HCA, in response to patient feedback, believes e-consent with patient access would help
patients and their loved ones better understand and manage patients’ needs; this would
include all patient records via patient portal, electronic health records, telehealth and
telemedicine, wearable devices (such as fitness trackers and monitors), as well as artificial
intelligence. The ability to track their health outcomes, apps, medication reminders, family
health history tracking, and remote monitoring is invaluable.
In response to Data Access and Integration:
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or
their caregivers or both?
Access to their medical records, test results, family medical history, consent to share health
care information, and appointment notes is valuable for patients and caregivers. Patients also
have a right to view and copy most of their own protected health information, as enshrined
in federal law under HIPAA and implementing rules.

Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
June 9, 2025
Page 2
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other
technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data,
clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
It is hard for patients to easily gain access to clinical trial data, mortality data, and
comprehensive patient data from various sources—including electronic health records
(EHRs), medical imaging, genomic sequencing, and wearables—in one location.
In response to Compliance and Certification:
VB-5. In your experience, how do current certification criteria and standards incorporate
into the ONC Health IT Certification Program support value-based care delivery?
The ONC Health IT Certification Program’s certification criteria and standards play a
crucial role in supporting value-based care delivery by promoting interoperability, data
exchange, quality reporting, and patient engagement.
VB-6. What specific health information technology capabilities that could benefit APMs
are not currently addressed by existing certification criteria and standards that should be
included under the ONC Health IT Certification Program?
To improve APM support, the ONC Health IT Certification Program should include and
address capabilities for prior authorization APIs, quality reporting, and advanced decision
support interventions. These would enhance interoperability, data exchange, and clinical
decision-making, ultimately supporting APM performance and patient care.
VB-7. How can technology requirements for APMs, established through CEHRT or other
pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility?
Having a more modular design - Breakdown into Components:
Instead of a monolithic system, design technology requirements around modular
components. Each module can be updated or replaced independently, allowing for flexibility
without disrupting the entire system.
Standardized Metrics:
Establish clear, standardized metrics for quality and performance. This ensures consistency
and reduces confusion, allowing for better comparison and analysis across different APMs.
Interoperability Standards:

Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
June 9, 2025
Page 3
Use established standards for data exchange and interoperability. This ensures that different
technologies can work together seamlessly, reducing the burden of integration and allowing
for greater flexibility.
Tools:
Allow for a variety of tools and technologies to meet the same requirements, if they meet
the established standards and specifications. This allows for innovation and adaptation to
specific needs.
Iterative Approach:
Embrace an iterative approach to design and implementation. Allow for feedback and
adjustments along the way, ensuring that the technology requirements evolve to meet
changing needs.
Data Sharing:
In compliance with state and federal laws, ensure that data can be shared securely and
efficiently between different systems and stakeholders, allowing for a more holistic view of
patient care and facilitating better coordination.
Standardized Communication:
Use standardized communication protocols to ensure that different systems can
communicate and exchange data effectively.
VB-8. How can other HHS policies supplement CEHRT requirements to better optimize
the use of digital health products in APMs? As an example, requirements under the
Conditions of Participation for hospitals (42 CFR 482.24(d)) require hospitals to transmit
electronic patient event notifications to community providers. What barriers are in place
preventing APM participants from receiving the same notifications?
HHS policies can supplement CEHRT requirements by focusing on interoperability, patient
access and data exchange. This includes mandating payer-to-payer data exchange,
promoting ADT (Admissions, Discharge, and Transfer) feeds for hospitals, and publicly
reporting providers who don't list digital contact information. Additionally, incentivizing the
use of digital health tools and providing clear guidelines on their use can further enhance
their integration within APMs.
VB-9. What technology requirements should be different for APM organizations when
compared to non-APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and
interoperability)?

Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
June 9, 2025
Page 4
Ensure that they meet specific standards and facilitate data exchange. Advanced APMs have
much stricter technology requirements, regarding CEHRT, quality reporting, and
interoperability. Non-APM organizations should still meet specific standards compared to
the more stringent requirements, and have the ability facilitate data exchange.
VB-10. In the Calendar Year (CY) 2024 Physician Fee Schedule final rule (88 FR 79413),
CMS established that CEHRT requirements for Advanced APMs beyond those in the
“Base EHR” definition should be flexible based on what is applicable to the APM that year
based on the area of clinical practice. What certification criteria should CMS identify
under this flexibility for specific Advanced APMs, or for Advanced APMs in general? Are
there specific flexibilities or alternatives to consider for smaller or resource-constrained
(such as rural) providers in meeting CEHRT requirements without compromising quality
of care or availability of performance data?
CMS should identify the same core certification criteria for all Advanced APMs: require the
use of certified electronic health record (EHR) technology, basing payments on quality
measures comparable to MIPS.
Technical Standards
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing
value-based care programs?
Fragmented data systems, lack of standardized data formats, and data sharing
restrictions. These challenges delay seamless data exchange, leading to delayed care, poor
patient outcomes, and frustrated patients.
VB-12. What technology standardization would preserve program-specific flexibility while
promoting innovation in APM technology implementation?
A flexible approach to technology standardization in APM to establish a baseline, a defined
set of core metrics, and industry standards.
VB-13. What improvements to existing criteria and standards would better support value-
based care capabilities while reducing provider burden?
Simplifying data reporting, streamlining administrative processes, and providing better
support for practice transformation.
VB-14. How could implementing digital identity credentials improve value-based care
delivery and outcomes?

Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
June 9, 2025
Page 5
It would enhance patient experience and engagement by streamlining care delivery and
reducing errors. Improving interoperability and data management will lead to cost savings.
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access
to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would
be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its effectiveness?
A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints would:
• Improve access to data.
• Enhance engagement.
• Provide better outcomes.
• Streamline workflows.
• Enhance decision support.
• Improve collaboration.
• Simplify development.
• Provide market opportunities.
Thank you for your consideration of our comments. Should you have any questions or additional
concerns, please contact Brett Mello, Chief Information Officer, at brett.mello@hca.wa.gov.
Sincerely,
MaryAnne Lindeblad, BSN, MPH
Acting Director
By electronic submission in the Federal Register