June 16, 2025
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue SW
Washington, D.C. 20201
Subject: Request for Information: Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Secretary Kennedy,
Covered California, the largest state-based health insurance marketplace, is committed
to advancing patient-centered care and improving health outcomes. We appreciate the
opportunity to provide feedback on CMS's Request for Information regarding the Health
Technology Ecosystem. As a leader in promoting access, affordability, and quality in
healthcare, we believe digital health tools and value-based care arrangements are vital
to achieving the quintuple aim: better care, better health, lower costs, equity, and
workforce sustainability. Below, we offer responses to specific questions that highlight
opportunities to ensure digital tools and value-based care programs deliver meaningful
benefits to patients, caregivers, and providers while driving system-wide transformation.
B. Patients and Caregivers
1. Patient Needs
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in
these digital health products?
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products
on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not
approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if
there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program
design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health
products (for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments,
or new beneficiary communications)?
Innovation in the health sector, especially in digital tools, is essential to improving
access, patient experience, and health outcomes. However, with a rapid growth in
digital health products, it is increasingly important to ensure these tools are
supported by credible evidence demonstrating their ability to truly help people live
longer and better lives. Covered California believes that oversight is critical; without

June 16, 2025
Page 2
rigorous evaluation, there is a risk of investing in solutions that do not provide
meaningful benefit for consumers, plans, or purchasers.
From this perspective, CMS could play a valuable role in the review of digital health
products by establishing standards for efficacy, quality, and impact on health
outcomes. If there is a review process, we would recommend the collection of data
and use of assessment criteria that is person and family centered but has also been
shown to reduce costs and improve outcomes. Example criteria could include:
1. Does the tool increase coordination of care?
2. Does the tool increase continuity of care?
3. Does the tool improve functional status?
4. Does the tool improve self-reported health status and health related quality of
life?
5. Does the tool improve condition-specific patient reported outcomes (e.g., PHQ-9,
GAD-7 etc.)
6. Does the tool improve medication adherence?
7. Does the tool improve patient engagement and health literacy?
8. Does the tool enhance receipt of guideline directed therapy?
9. Does the tool enhance receipt of goal-concordant care?
By requiring tools to not only gather data on validated and clinically significant
measures but also undergo evaluation based on these self-reported outcomes, CMS
could improve the quality of digital options. This approach would help filter out less
effective options, reduce unnecessary complexity, and ensure that the most valuable
products are utilized in meaningful ways by patients and caregivers.
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider
generated data on patients?
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health
outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the
best means of doing so?
Digital health products could be required to electronically submit deidentified
aggregated data on all participants biannually, which negates privacy and security
concerns but still allows for visibility and utility of information. In the spirit of
transparency, if a data layout is standardized by CMS in advance, then the files could
be posted and hosted on a CMS site for the public to access and use. If CMS develops
clear guidelines in advance, there would be minimal to low burden on digital tool
vendors as they could build their platform data collection systems in a compliant manner
and readily extract the requested information in the correct format.

June 16, 2025
Page 3
F. Value-Based Care Organizations
1. Digital Health Adoption
VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population
health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement,
and patient engagement be better integrated into APM requirements?
Currently there are substantial effort, energy, and resources being poured into ensuring
full capture of risk-adjustment dollars. This translates into low-value efforts designed to
capture codes. Covered California would strongly encourage APM requirements that
move away from funding models that rely heavily on coding, which will lead to the
application of transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) in wasteful
ways. Instead, having APM structures that 1) focus on a clearly attributed population,
and 2) are accountable for total cost of care, addressing social drivers, reducing
morbidity and mortality, and improving self-reported outcomes should be the goal. Then
the APM models can focus on nimbly trialing various ways to use AI to increase patient
engagement and clinical algorithms can use large language models that pull patient
specific information from multiple data sources, and care gap analytics can be
appropriately integrated into clinical workflows. Instead of developing a new fee-for-
service code for every new application of technology, we would encourage instead
shared savings arrangements that rewards creativity, cost containment and reversal of
illness and acuity.
VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event
notification, data extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement,
access to claims data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device
interoperability, or other patient empowerment tools.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based
care arrangements?
Critical health IT capabilities for success in value-based care arrangements include:
• The ability to attribute members by different methodologies (depending on the
line of business and structure of risk)
• Bidirectional data exchange capabilities, including ingestion of ADT feeds and
real-time flagging
• A disease management registry or some tools to identify care gaps
• The ability to risk stratify members (based not only on claims and clinical data but
also social and environmental factors) and adjust priority based on intake of new
data
• Mapping of risk level to appropriate team-member for engagement. Example, a
member with rising risk based on financial or food insecurity may benefit most

June 16, 2025
Page 4
from a community health worker, while a member with rising risk based on
worsening chronic kidney disease may benefit most from a pharmacist who can
titrate medications
• Multimodal patient access points such as eVisits, secure emailing, secure
SMS/texting, telephone and video visits, patient portals as well as in-person visits
• Remote patient monitoring tools, when used, with integration into the electronic
health record and connected to human-in-the-loop review and intervention
• The ability to route referrals to high-quality, low cost specialists and have closed-
loop communication
• The ability to support specialty eConsultation, which has been shown in multiple
studies to reduce low value specialty visits and increase access
Finally, part of the quintuple aim is also workforce sustainability. For IT tools to truly
be considered successful in value-based arrangements, they must free up time for
the clinical teams to spend more time with patients, reduce low-value abrasive
activities, and increase joy in work.
Covered California strongly supports CMS’s efforts to improve the health technology
ecosystem. By setting high standards for digital health tools, fostering innovation, and
aligning value-based care requirements with patient-centered outcomes, CMS can
accelerate transformation in healthcare delivery. We look forward to continued
collaboration to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries and all Americans benefit from these
advancements.
Sincerely,
S. Monica Soni, MD
Chief Medical Officer