Unlocking movement disorder specialist capacity and mitigating risk: a platform
solution for cost reduction and care optimization in Parkinson’s disease
Aiden Arnold¹, Tiffany Jansen¹, Trevor Haynes¹, Amanda Hare¹, Mark Sedrak², Ejaz Shamim², Suketu Khandhar², Ro’ee Gilron¹
¹ Rune Labs , San Francisco, CA, USA ;² Kaiser Permanente , Sacramento, CA, USA
Program Goals & Results
Mobile Application, Wearable and LLM Application
OBJECTIVES
Improve patient and clinician care delivery ex-
perience through a technology-driven coaching
and triage system
METHODS
• Patients (n=138) used a wearable paired to a
mobile application to monitor their symptoms, re-
ceive medication reminders and educational con-
tent.
User Experience
• Patients reported specific symptoms that may re-
1 2
quire intervention or special attention such as falls,
Results INCREASED ENGAGEMENT DOWNSTREAM IMPACT
rapid decline in mobility or hallucinations.
• Regular coaching sessions regarding mobile appli-
cation usage, medication reminders and reporting
were offered.
MDS appointment rate per patient year before and after onboarding to StrivePD
• Prior to upcoming visits with Movement Disorder
Specialists (MDS), LLMs were combined with tem- Office Visit
50
Video Visit
plates to generate reports summarizing passively Telephone Appointment Visit
40
After Onboarding
and actively reported symptoms as a tool to facili-
Before Onboarding
30
tate and enrich communication during the clinical
20
visit.
10
0
−300 −250 −200 −150 −100 −50 0 50 100
MDS appointment Relative to Onboard Date (days)
StrivePD AI Report Pipeline
Symptom report by category: Prevalence of reported bothersome
symptoms across patients
Metrics captured from a continuously worn wrist-based
CONCLUSIONS
wearable with mobile phone carried near the waist
• Program has the potential to reduce the burden on MDS clinicians
by increasing MDS capacity
• Problematic symptoms addressed sooner
• Support timely care plan changes between clinical visits
• Suggests a reduction in hospitalization rate
Clinician Experience Patient Experience
).u.a(
rebmuN
laireS
tneitaP
MDS visit rate: MDS visit rate:
2.39 / patient year 1.95 / patient year
ED visit rate per patient year before and after onboarding to StrivePD
60
ED Visits
50
Before Onboarding
After Onboarding
40
30
20
10
0
−300 −250 −200 −150 −100 −50 0 50 100
ED Visit Relative to Onboard Date (days)
).u.a(
rebmuN
laireS
tneitaP
Primary Objectives
Empower Improve Continuous Increase
patient self-care visit efficiency care monitoring MDS Capacity
Help patients recognize Provide clinicians with Enable clinicians to Triage patients in need
data patterns to drive access to patient data, monitor patients of appointments while
behavioral changes that and provide patients between visits using well-controlled pa-
alleviate symptoms and with data-enriched wearable data and tients are monitored
In the program, patients used a wearable device paired with a mobile app to track
Leveraging LLM technology to provide patient summaries and personalized recommendations based
improve quality of life. tools to prepare for symptom logs. remotely without the
symptoms, receive medication reminders, access personalized educational content,
on their passively-recorded and self-reported data.
visits. need for additional cli-
and recieve coaching on app use and program goal setting every six weeks.
nician visits.
Safety & Evaluation
1 2 3 4
StrivePD AI summaries are generated
on a test set of synthetic notes/logs
Engagement drives medication and exercise adherence: motivation to High-risk participants are identified by algorithms and engaged with coaching and educational interventions,
that have summaries written by
time medications properly along with exercise results in continual optimi- decreasing utilization of specialists, emergency medicine and inpatient resources.
healthcare professionals.
zation at home.
Generated summaries are scored on
110
Older patients were more likely
semantic similarity, faithfulness and to visit ED; no association was
Patients log med- Interested StrivePD AI Every 4 weeks, 75% 67% 74% 100
found between ED visits and
detection rate of key symptoms from
years since PD diagnosis
ication, symp- patients opt-in ingests and patients receive
90
the human curated test set.
toms and activi- to StrivePD AI reasons a report with in- patients reported patients reported patients reported
80
StrivePD helpful “attention increased activity
ties in StrivePD features, includ- through symp- sights into their MDS visits 250 days before
If new updates score better on the
in med adherence needed” events after onboarding onboarding to StrivePD and 100
70
iOS app ing generative tom data, notes symptom trends
metrics, summaries are generated on days after. Visits prior to
Mean of 2.57 different med. /day; Total of 108,509 events Total of 10,269 exercise sessions 18.1%
reports and physical onboarding associated with
60
real patient data and a random
taken 2.65 times daily evaluated. Top 3: Off period, logged. enrollment were masked out of
activity logs
sample is reviewed by internal health- this dataset. Each value on y axis
[0.29-5.83]. lightheadedness, falling. 50
MDS visit decreased
represents one patient. Before
care professionals.
after onboarding
StrivePD onboarding, 2.38 visits 40
No ED Visit ED Visit = 1 ED Visit >= 2
per patient year were observed
If the human-in-the-loop testing re- compared to 1.95 after;
representing a 18.1% decline.
4.7
sults in a summary rejection rate >2%,
15h 52% Dot size represents visit 18
the update is not migrated into pro- duration.
16
ED Rate: ED Rate:
free-text notes per 2.39 / patient year 1.95 / patient year
duction systems. 14
watch wear per exercised more
patient weekly in
12
patient per day in than 150 min
Percentage of Patients Reporting Symptoms by Categoryaverage
average per week 10
[n=131]
Motor Symptoms (Including Motor Complications)
Total of 3,835 free-text notes ED visits 100 days before on-
8
1.74M hours of sensor data Data were collected passively
slowness
boarding to StrivePD. Each value
written. 62K words, summarized
recorldege-cdra, mwpsith 3+ daily app using Apple Watches. Exercise 6
on y axis represents one patient.
and screened for “attention
HIPAA & COMPLIANCE interagcatiti-oissnuses per patient. time increased significantly after Before StrivePD onboarding, 4
42.9%
needed”. Logging via voice
falling onboarding (Wilcoxon signed 0.29 visits per patient year were
Percentage of Patients Reporting Symptoms by Category
External AI and API services used by Strive- 2
dystonia available on watch and phone. [n=1ra3n1]k test, W = 120.0, p = 0.03). observed compared to 0.17
Motor Symptoms (Including Motor Complications) 0
PD AI are covered by a Business Associate ED visit decreased after; representing a 42.9% de-
freezing
slowness No ED Visit ED Visit = 1 ED Visit >= 2
cline.
Agreement (BAA) to ensure that all data and dyskinesia after onboarding
leg-cramps
off-period
gait-issues
information is handled in a HIPAA compliant
rigidity falling
manner.
balance-issues dystonia
freezing
tremor
dyskinesia
PHI & GUARDRAILS
Symptoms were reported through the mobile application. The symptoms are categorized into three groups:
Autonomic and Sensory Symptoms
off-period
All data sent to external services is scrubbed motohera dsacyhme ptoms (left section), autonomic and sensory symptomsri g(idtiotyp right section), and neuropsychiatric and
gut-issues balance-issues
of PHI and monitored by Amazon Bedrock sleep symptoms (right bottom section). Cross marks indicate symptoms that receive special attention in reporting,
urinary-urgency tremor
Guardrails for harmful content, jailbreaks and risk triage, and educational materials.
drooling
Autonomic and Sensory Symptoms
prompt injections. constipation
headache
pain
gut-issues
Percentage of Patients Reporting Symptoms by Category
dry-mouth urinary-urgency
[n=131]
Motor Symptoms (Including Motor Complications)
dizziness drooling
RISK MITIGATION
slowness
constipation
fatigue
leg-cramps
Internal security teams maintain a risk matrix
pain
anxiety
gait-issues
dry-mouth
identifying core areas of risk for all AI ser-
swallowing-fisaslluinegs
dizziness
lightheaddyesdtnoensias
vices. A governance board provides monthly
fatigue
freezing
reviews of all AI applications. Neuropsychiatric and Sleep Symptoms anxiety
dyskinesia
swallowing-issues
hallucinations
off-period
lightheadedness
insomnia
rigidity
balandceep-riessssuieosn
Neuropsychiatric and Sleep Symptoms
tarpematohry hallucinations
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 insomnia
Autonomic and Sensory Symptoms
Prevalance across patients (%) depression
headache
apathy
gut-issues
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
urinary-urgency
Prevalance across patients (%)
drooling
constipation
pain
dry-mouth
dizziness
fatigue
anxiety
swallowing-issues
lightheadedness
Neuropsychiatric and Sleep Symptoms
hallucinations
insomnia
depression
apathy
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Prevalance across patients (%)
)sraey(
ega
)sraey(
sisongaid
ecnis
emit
Age / ED visits
**
*
Years Since Diagnosis / ED Visits