June 16, 2025
Submitted via www.regulations.gov
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
RIN 0938-AV68, CMS-0042-NC: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Administrator Oz & Acting Assistant Secretary Steven Posnack,
Aledade, a public benefit corporation, is the largest network of independent primary care in the
country, helping independent practices, health centers and clinics deliver better care to their
patients and thrive in value-based care. Through its proven, scalable model, which includes
cutting-edge data analytics, user-friendly guided workflows, health care policy expertise, strong
payer relationships and integrated care solutions, Aledade empowers physicians to succeed
financially by keeping people healthy. Together with more than 2,400 practices, federally-qualified
health centers and community health centers in 46 states and the District of Columbia, Aledade
shares in the risk and reward across more than 200 value-based contracts representing nearly 3
million patient lives under management. More than 60% of our practices are in Primary Care
Shortage Areas and 50% are in Medically Underserved Areas. Aledade embraces a health care
culture where all are included, valued, and cared for.
Aledade thanks the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Assistant
Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology (ONC) for their continued commitment to effective and responsible adoption of
technology to empower patients to make better decisions for their health and well-being.
Technology is an ever-changing environment requiring adherence to principles and nimbleness to
changes to technology. We believe the next few years should be driven by three principles:
1. Reliable Read and Write Capabilities through API:
Access to reliable, low-latency Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) is fundamental
to ensuring that healthcare providers can efficiently interact with Electronic Health
Records (EHRs). We advocate for APIs that not only facilitate read and write capabilities
but also reflect the completeness and accuracy of data that users expect to find in EHR
1

systems. This will empower clinicians with real-time data, enabling timely decision-making
and ultimately improving patient care. To achieve this, it is essential that all stakeholders
invest in standard-setting and best practices that guarantee data integrity throughout the
API lifecycle.
Currently, Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR), continues to gain traction as
a standard for exchanging electronic health information. Its capability to provide quick and
reliable access to patient data through APIs can illustrate the importance of reliable read
and write capabilities. Of particular note FHIR has successfully integrated non EHR
systems such as the Red Cross’s blood donor data. Most importantly, we are thrilled by
the latest indications from CMS that they plan on revitalizing the Data at the Point of Care
(DPC) initiative. DPC holds immense potential for CMS to lead the way for a payer sharing
information via FHIR API that will make health encounters in the US safer and more
productive.
2. Standard Implementations and Onboarding Procedures:
We urge the promotion of standardized implementations and onboarding procedures for
APIs controlled by any entity managing access to health data. A uniform approach would
streamline the integration process for all providers, EHRs and payers, leading to
consistency in user experience and minimizing the burden of disparate onboarding
protocols. CMS should be aware that it is not always the obvious party that controls
access. For example, most EPIC EHR implementations, access and onboarding would be
done by the hospital IT department not by EPIC. By establishing clear guidelines that
prioritize interoperability and efficiency, CMS can support the emergence of a vibrant
ecosystem of health technology solutions.
Existence of an API does not equal availability which in turn does not equal usability. CMS
can create an environment where the API owner adheres to common best practices: clear
and public documentation, RESTful standards, granular permissions, error
handling/feedback, backward compatibility, and flexible data querying. It is not enough for
the EHR vendor to simply be certified to create the type of ecosystem that will benefit all
Americans.
3. Variable Write Access Based on Safety Implications:
We propose that CMS adopt a nuanced approach to write access for APIs, recognizing the
varying safety implications of different types of information. For instance, the barriers and
controls surrounding API write access should differ for submitting a medication record
versus recommending a clinical intervention for a physician’s consideration. By
implementing flexible access controls tailored to the specific safety profiles of data types,
CMS can eliminate unnecessary restrictions on innovation while maintaining robust safety
standards. This approach would encourage the development of tools that can enhance
care without compromising patient safety.
2

In practice write access is lagging far behind read access. There are very good reasons
why EHRs are more closed systems than the common counterparts outside of health
care. No one ever died due to an erroneous CRM system entry. However, it cannot be the
case that every write access request is treated like it is an order for medication. This
would greatly limit innovation, particularly with regards to AI. Granular permissions are
crucial in health care to preserve safety while allowing innovation. Every EHR should
support granular permissions for write access.
In conclusion, we believe that embracing these principles—reliable read and write capabilities
through APIs, standardized implementations and onboarding procedures, and variable write
access based on safety implications—will significantly enhance the ability of healthcare providers
to deliver high-quality, patient-centered care. As Aledade continues to partner with practices
across the nation, we remain committed to advocating for a health technology ecosystem that
fosters collaboration, innovation, and improved patient outcomes. We appreciate the opportunity
to provide our insights and look forward to working together with CMS and ONC to create a more
connected and effective healthcare system. Thank you for your attention to these critical issues
and for your ongoing leadership in health technology advancement.
Sincerely,
Travis Broome, MPH, MBA
SVP of Policy and Economics
travis@aledade.com
3