Mehmet Oz Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem [CMS-0042-NC] Dear Administrator Oz, The Center for Telehealth and e -Health Law (CTeL) appreciates CMS’ proactive engagement in shaping the future of the health technology ecosystem. CTeL, a 501(c)(3) non -profit research institute, has been at the forefront of digital health policy for over two decades. Our mission is to conduct evidence -based insights that inform policy and shape the complex legal and regulatory landscape surrounding digital health. We have consistently served as a vital resource for policymakers, providers, and innovators, anticipating challenges and championing solutions in areas like telehealth reimbursement, remote patient monitoring, and the ethical integration of artificial intelligence in healthcare. Please see our responses to select questions from the RFI below, reflecting evidence- based policy recommend ations PC-5 a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if ther e is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new benefici ary communications)? CTeL recognizes CMS's traditional deference to agencies like the FDA for product approval. CY25 Physician Fee Schedule rulemaking regarding Digital Mental Health Treatment devices (DMHTs) expressed a belief that the Agency’s current scope may not extend to developing comprehensive frameworks or registries independently. CTeL recommends that CMS leverage its unique position and convening power not to duplicate FDA efforts, but to establish clear criteria for what constitutes clinical evidence and real - world performance data sufficient for CMS program integrity and payment, especially for technologies that may not undergo traditional FDA review pathways but 
significantly impact care delivery and costs. This is distinct from coverage determinations but foundational to them. Furthermore, CTeL believes CMS can significantly drive adoption by championing clear, accessible information. We propose CMS partner with HHS entities, such as the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), alongside expert organizations like CTeL, to expand upon resources like telehealth.hhs.gov . Such a resource should provide: • Best practices for selecting and integrating digital health tools. • Clear explanations of relevant laws, data privacy/security obligations (e.g., HIPAA in the context of new technologies). • Updated guidance on evolving reimbursement frameworks. • CTeL, with its extensive legal and regulatory expertise, is prepared to contribute significantly to developing and curating such content. PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience using digital tools and services? CTeL continues to recommend that policymakers prioritize empowering patient c are through unimpeded access to digital health tools. We highlight two critical areas where CMS can take leadership here: data access and language access. Data: Effective utilization of many digital health services, especially those involving synchronous audio -video telehealth, is contingent upon adequate internet bandwidth – a significant barrier for many beneficiaries. While the provided table of platform bandwi dth requirements is illustrative, we note that these represent minimums, and optimal performance, especially in households with multiple users or for more data -intensive remote monitoring tools, often requires greater capacity. Below is a table with a sample of various telehealth platforms and their recommended bandwidth requirements for a one-on-one audio -video telehealth visit : Platform Recommended minimum speed Zoom for Healthcare 600kbps (up/down) doxy.me 500kbps (up/down) Amwell 24mbps (up/down) SimplePractice 10mbps (up/down) 
Mend 300kbps-1.1mbps (up/down) FCC data from June 2024 released in May of this year show that 5.3% of fixed broadband connections in the US have an upload speed of less than 3mbps , meaning that millions of Americans may not have the internet speed required to utilize telehealth and other digital health services. Fixed broadband is not the only concern, however. A growing proportion of Americans are smartphone -only internet users, meaning that they do not subscribe to a home broadband service and exclusively use their smartphone to access the internet. Smartphone dependency is higher among younger ages, lower incomes, and those with lower levels of formal education. These individuals often utilize cellular data plans which are typically accompanied by data caps that, when exceeded, impose additional fees on the subscriber or result in data throttling. This forces patients to ration their data use, pitting potential access to digital health servic es against communicating with loved ones, utilizing government services , attending virtual classes, or other internet needs. CMS can work with cell companies to create an exemption from data caps for digital healthcare services like telehealth and remote moni toring so that patients do not need to compromise their acc ess to ca re. In 2020, many cell carriers temporarily waived data caps in response to COVID -19, which the FCC found did not significantly affect network performance. CMS can also work with Congress to reinstate the Affordable Connectivity Program, which helped households increase their bandwidth and hardware capacities. Language: There are estimated to be over 25 million people living in the United States who have limited English proficiency (LEP) . This population, about 8% of the total US population, “do not speak English as their primary language and have a limited ability to read, write, speak, or understand English .” Numerous studies indicate the potential negative effect that LEP can have on one’s health , such as : • Journal of General Internal Medicine : “Adults aged 18 –64 years with LEP were significantly more likely to lack a usual source of care … not have visited a medical provider … and to be overdue for receipt of preventive services, including blood pressure check … and colorectal cancer screening ” • Healthcare : “30-day readmission was clearly higher for LEP populations, which dovetails with the studies that found that LEP patients were less likely to receive discharge instructions that they could understand and, therefore, less likely to follow through with discha rge instructions. ” 
LEP can also limit one’s ability to take advantage of digital health technologies, such as telehealth: • JAMA Network Open : “Lower communication quality, lower medical evaluation quality, and difficulties with technical accessibility of video visits were reported to diminish motivation to use video visits. For some, these disadvantages were sufficient to deter use of video visits , while for others, they were counterbalanced by the ease of access provided by video visits. ” • Public Health Reports : “The likelihood of using telehealth was lower among Hispanic patients than among non -Hispanic White and non -Hispanic Black patients during the pandemic. ” One potential solution that has been promoted is the use of real -time AI translation to help bridge language gaps. While technology holds much promise, at this time the technology ’s shortcomings still pose risk to patient safety. One literature review found that AI translation models ranged from 36% -76% accuracy when translating to English and that human translation was often still necessary. In the short -term CMS should instead invest in technical assistance efforts to help practices bridge language barriers , such as best - practices for using interpreters for telehealth services or increasing language options for digital health products. CTeL recommends CMS focus on: 1. Investing in robust technical assistance programs to equip providers with best practices for utilizing qualified interpreters in telehealth settings. 2. Promoting the development and adoption of digital health platforms that offer multi-language interfaces and culturally competent design. PC-7. If CMS were to collect real -world data on digital health products’ impact on health outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the best means of doing so? CTeL has pioneered research in quantifying the economic and clinical impact of digital health interventions. Our 2021 study on telehealth's role in preventing care escalations, which demonstrated significant potential savings for Medicare and Medicaid, is a testament to the value of such analyses. This foundational work can serve as a model for broader data coll ection. To effectively gather and analyze real -world data, CTeL recommends CMS: 
1. Integrate data collection on digital health utilization and outcomes into existing and future value -based care models and quality reporting programs. This ensures data is collected within clinical workflows. 2. Collaborate with ASTP and AHRQ to establish standardized data elements and interoperability requirements for digital health products. This will facilitate aggregation and comparison across different tools and platforms. 3. Support the creation of secure, de -identified data repositories for digital health outcomes. Building on the HHS AI use case inventory concept , these repositories can accelerate learning and innovation. CTeL is well -positioned to advise on the governance and ethical considerations of such repositories. 4. Support the creation of secure, de -identified data repositories for digital health outcomes. Building on the HHS AI use case inventory concept , these repositories can accelerate learning and innovation. CTeL is well -positioned to advise on the governance and ethical considerations of such repositories. TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer -term steps can CMS take to stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers? Sustainable developer interest is intrinsically linked to clear, predictable, and adequate reimbursement pathways that recognize the value and cost of digital health innovation. There is no incentive for companies to fund R&D on a product that will not have any buyers due to insufficient payment policy. CTeL has consistently advised that a stable policy environment is the most powerful stimulant for investment. A critical, actionable step CMS can take is to modernize its practice expense (PE) methodology. Specifically, CTeL urges CMS to reclassify software and related digital service costs as direct practice expenses. The current classification as indirect PE fails to capture the significant, ongoing operational costs of contemporary digital health solutions, especially those delivered via Software as a Service (SaaS) models. This change would allow tech -enabled servic e codes to reflect the actual cost of care delivery more accurately , thereby improving the ROI for practices and incentivizing bo th adoption and development of innovative health technologies . VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement, and patient engagement be better integrated into APM requirements? 
Digital health te chnologies like AI have the p otential to transform the delivery of value- based ca re by improving the quality of care, decreasing pa tient costs, and b etter monitorin g population health outc omes. The Meaningful Use program provides an important case study for implementing digital health tools in payment models. While the Meaningful Use incentive accelerated EHR adoption, it also led to workflow disruption and clinician burnout without commensurate improvements in EHR usability and efficiency. CMS cannot repeat these mistakes for technologies like AI at a time of soaring medical burnout and nationwide health workforce shortages . To effectively integrate technologies like AI into APMs, CTeL recommends CMS: 1. Prioritize flexibility and clinician involvement: APM requirements should allow providers to choose best -fit technologies for their patient populations and workflows, with robust input from frontline clinicians in designing and evaluating these requirements. 2. Focus on the Quadruple Aim : Technology integration should be explicitly tied to achieving: reduced costs, improved population health, enhanced patient experience, and improved healthcare workforce well -being. 3. Establish clear guidelines for AI: As AI tools become more prevalent in areas like risk stratification and care coordination, CMS must ensure these tools maintain transparency in their decision -making processes. CTeL’s policy expertise in AI governance can be an asset to CMS in developing these frameworks. AI’s potential to enhance value -based care is significant, as highlighted by the scoping review on AI's role in improving triage and resource allocation. CMS can foster this by supporting pilot programs and learning collaboratives focused on AI in APMs. Conclusion CTeL thanks CMS for its leadership and this opportunity to contribute our expertise to these critical policy discussions. As a leader in digital health law and policy, CTeL will continue to serve as a strategic partner to CMS, offering our research capabilities, legal insights, and convening power to help navigate the path ahead. We are confident that through collaborative effort, we can harness the full potential of digital health to benefit all patients If you have any questions regarding the content of this letter, please reach out Lydia Homovich, Policy Analyst, at lydiah@ctel.org . Sincerely, 
 Christa Natoli Executive Director, Center for Telehealth and e -Health Law 