June 11, 2025
Administrator Mehmet Oz
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244
RE: ATA Action Response to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Request for Information
Information Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
Dear Administrator Oz,
On behalf of ATA Action, we are pleased to offer the below comments in response to the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (“CMS” or the “Agency”) request for information with the
goal of removing unnecessary barriers to digital health access and promoting health care
innovation.
ATA Action, the American Telemedicine Association’s affiliated trade association, is focused on
ensuring all individuals have permanent access to digital health products and services across
the care continuum. ATA Action supports the enactment of state and federal digital health
coverage and appropriate payment policies to secure digital health access for all Americans,
including those in rural and underserved communities. ATA Action recognizes that digital health
products and services have the potential to truly transform the health care delivery system – by
improving patient outcomes, enhancing safety and effectiveness of care, addressing health
disparities, and reducing costs – if only allowed to flourish.
We are excited to share with you that ATA Action acquired the Digital Therapeutics Alliance
(DTA) on March 31, 2025. The DTA was the leading international nonprofit trade organization
focused on expanding access to digital therapeutics. Through this acquisition, ATA Action
expanded its advocacy efforts to support digital health tools such as digital therapeutics, digital
diagnostics, remote monitoring devices, and artificial intelligence by forming the Advancing
Digital Health Coalition.
As a preliminary matter, we recognize the importance of the Agency’s deregulation efforts and
encourage the removal of unnecessary digital health barriers while prioritizing regulations and
guidance that encourage innovation. We also thank the Agency for its ongoing efforts to
increase beneficiary access to effective digital capabilities. As further discussed below, we
believe that a combination of deregulation and targeted guidance is necessary to promote
health care innovation and digital health adoption.
1. Collaborate with Congress to ensure continuation of Medicare telehealth
flexibilities
At the beginning of 2025, Congress extended the following flexibilities through September 30,
2025:
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

● Waiving originating and geographic sites
● Audio-only coverage
● Expansion of Medicare telehealth list to include therapists
● Allowing Rural Health Clinics (RHCs) and Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs)
to serve as distant sites
● Temporary waiver of telemental health in-person requirement
● Continuation of Acute Hospital Care at Home Program
ATA Action kindly requests CMS to work alongside Congress to make permanent or extend
these flexibilities for as long as possible before the end of September. Following an extension, it
is critical that CMS releases aligning regulatory guidance as soon as possible to reduce
confusion amongst the industry.
2. Make Certain Telehealth Flexibilities Permanent
a. Permanently Allow Telehealth Providers to Use Practice Address (Not
Personal) for Billing and Enrollment
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, CMS policy on a telehealth provider’s distant site address was
not clear. When discussing the distant site, the Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter
12, Section 190.6.1 Submission of Telehealth Claims for Distant Site Practitioners and the MLN
Booklet on Telehealth Services simply state that claims for telehealth services are submitted to
the contractors that process claims for the performing practitioner’s service area. However,
“service area” was never explicitly defined. In response to requests for clarification on this topic,
CMS responded that practitioners should enter “where they typically practice” on line 32 of the
HCFA 1500 claim form the address and that should be their home address if that is the location
of typical practice. Throughout the pandemic, CMS allowed providers across the country who
render telehealth services to list a practice address rather than their home address on their
Medicare enrollment and billing forms. We applaud CMS for extending this flexibility
through CY2025 and strongly urge the Agency to make it permanent. As we have pointed
out in previous comments to CMS, workplace violence is a leading cause of job dissatisfaction
among providers, particularly nurses. Workplace violence incidents can lead to increased costs
due to staff turnover, costs for treating injuries, and staff time away from work. One of ATA
Action’s top priorities is to ensure provider safety and security. A provider should not be required
to list their home address on any Medicare form, especially one that will be published on a
public facing platform. Additionally, if this flexibility were to revert back to the pre-pandemic
policy there would be a tremendous influx of Medicare billing and enrollment forms that CMS
may not have the resources or capacity to keep up with internally.
b. Make Removal of Certain Telehealth Frequency Limits Permanent
ATA Action seeks to remove arbitrary barriers that limit access to care such as telehealth
frequency limitations, in-person, geographic proximity, or brick and mortar requirements. In last
year’s Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (PFS), CMS removed the telehealth frequency
limitations for subsequent hospital inpatient/observation care (99231, 99232, 99233),
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

subsequent nursing facility visits (99307, 99308, 99309, 99310), and critical care consultation
services (G0508, G0509), until the end of CY2025. We appreciate this extension but urge CMS
to permanently remove these telehealth frequency limitations moving forward.
c. Make Direct Virtual Supervision via Telehealth Permanent For All Scenarios
ATA Action applauds CMS for extending the COVID-19 PHE definition of direct supervision,
which allows a supervising provider to be considered “immediately available” through virtual
presence, through the end of CY2025. We are also pleased that CMS made this definition
permanent for a subset of low-risk, incident-to services typically performed entirely by auxiliary
personnel. While these are steps in the right direction, ATA Action continues to urge CMS to
make direct supervision via telehealth a permanent option across all scenarios. We recommend
that CMS collaborate with stakeholders to identify the most appropriate services for this
supervision method, with patient safety as the paramount concern. Providers should have the
autonomy to determine when direct supervision via telehealth is clinically appropriate and
consistent with the standard of care, and CMS should avoid imposing additional requirements
for virtual supervision that do not apply to in-person supervision.
Further, we support CMS’s decision to continue to allow teaching physicians to have a virtual
presence during a virtual, three-way telehealth visit, with the patient, resident, and teaching
physician in separate locations through CY2025. Although, ATA Action asks CMS to
permanently allow direct virtual supervision for teaching physicians during both virtual visits and
non-virtual visits, specifically allowing in-person resident and patient visits to be supervised by a
teaching provider who joins virtually.
3. Address Outdated Medicaid In-State Location Requirements
Long-standing Medicaid policies in some states require their licensed providers to have an
in-state service address to be considered an in-state provider, despite the fact that the provider
holds a valid in-state license. Medicaid agencies did not anticipate virtual care at scale,
delivered by providers licensed in their state but practicing across state lines when many of the
enrollment requirements were instituted. Consequently, provider entities are either denied
enrollment by state Medicaid agencies or are required to adhere to onerous and unnecessary
out-of-state provider enrollment rules.
Outdated structural deficiencies have mandated that a provider group service address be used,
which is typically where the group is headquartered. While CMS and state Medicaid programs
have already updated requirements to allow distant site providers to furnish telehealth services,
they have not yet fixed brick-and-mortar service address requirements. For providers offering
services via telehealth, the distant site -- where the provider is located -- is not necessarily the
same as the service address. This dynamic is leading to confusion among state Medicaid
agencies. Policies have not kept pace with technology. As a result, vulnerable patient
populations miss out on the full scope of high-quality medical and specialty care that telehealth
can enable, including easier access to affordable health care services delivered by wider and
more robust provider networks. States should ensure that so long as a health care provider
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

is appropriately licensed in a state, by that state’s licensing Board, they should not be
treated as an out-of-state provider.
Further, telehealth providers should not be required to hold a license in the state where their
provider group is located because the patient is not being seen at that service address.
Providers encounter significant administrative burdens when delivering care to Medicaid
beneficiaries. As states look to expand access and account for the significant expansion of
telehealth services, state programs need guidance on how best to modernize and streamline
provider enrollment while addressing the administrative burdens associated with furnishing
telehealth services in Medicaid. As CMS looks to expand access to high quality telehealth, we
ask for your support in updating prior telehealth guidance to states to better
communicate provider enrollment requirements under current law, identify where states
have authority to modernize, and provide recommendations that would harmonize
enrollment requirements, reduce regulatory and administrative burden, and enhance
Medicaid provider networks.
4. Promote Digital Health Innovation Through Appropriate Reimbursement
The absence of clear reimbursement pathways for prescription digital therapeutics (PDTs) and
other digital health products and services hinders innovation and adoption. We strongly
encourage CMS to eliminate or revise unnecessary limitations and requirements relevant to
reimbursement for digital health, considering the unique qualities of the products and services
and how they are delivered. A few specific examples are provided below for your consideration.
a. Remove Unnecessary Virtual Care Limitations on Medicare Diabetes
Prevention Program
The Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program (MDPP) is a Medicare-covered initiative designed
to help prevent or delay the onset of Type 2 diabetes in individuals at high risk. MDPP suppliers
are organizations or entities that are approved by CMS to deliver the Diabetes Prevention
Program, which typically involves group-based coaching, education, and support in areas such
as nutrition, physical activity, and weight management.
Unfortunately, when expanded in 2018, CMS restricted access to MDPP benefits solely to
in-person programs and elected not to authorize enrollment of CDC-recognized virtual DPP
supplier organizations (in contrast to CDC policy, which recognizes virtual programs and
providers). CMS should modernize the MDPP and align with the CDC National Diabetes
Prevention Program and allow virtual suppliers to furnish critical diabetes prevention services to
Medicare beneficiaries. Modernizing MDPP would make significant progress toward preventing
the onset of Type 2 diabetes in Medicare beneficiaries with prediabetes. By helping individuals
make lifestyle changes that reduce their risk of developing diabetes, the program has the
potential to save the federal government and taxpayers billions of dollars.
We urge CMS to expand this program and allow all CDC-recognized delivery modalities,
including virtual diabetes prevention platforms and suppliers, to participate in the
Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program.
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

b. Withdraw Unduly Narrow Digital Mental Health Treatment Device
Requirements
We applaud the Agency’s decision to create the new G codes which apply to certain digital
mental health treatments (DMHTs) and encourage CMS to remove unnecessary limitations
on G0552 (DMHT device code).
Importantly, economic studies have shown the potential for DMHT devices to decrease overall
medical spending. 1 Notably, the Peterson Health Technology Institute, an independent non-profit
organization, recently found that using PDTs with conventional care in treating anxiety and
depression, resulted in an estimated $643 per user decrease in annual healthcare spending. 2
With respect to specific DMHT devices, studies have found the following:
● Treatment of substance use disorder patients using reSET for 6 months demonstrated
50% reduction in hospital encounters and >$3,500 savings per patient. 3
● A retrospective study of claims data showed a $2,150 per patient savings due to
changes in facility and clinical encounters while using reSET-O during a six-month
period. 4
● In a yearlong pilot study of using Freespira to treat PTSD anxiety, overall medical costs
were reduced by 35% from $548 to $358 PMPM (per member per month). 5
● A large real-world, retrospective cohort study found use of SleepioRx among 11,027 US
adults was associated with a statistically significant annual healthcare cost saving of
$2,083 per person-a 42% reduction from baseline-compared with matched controls who
1 Youn SJ, Jaso B, Eyllon M, Sah P, Hoyler G, Barnes JB, Jarama K, Murillo L, O'Dea H, Orth L, Pennine M, Rogers E,
Welch G, Nordberg SS. Leveraging Implementation Science to Integrate Digital Mental Health Interventions as part
of Routine Care in a Practice Research Network available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37615809/
2 Peterson Health Technology Institute, Virtual Solutions for Depression and Anxiety, May 2025 available at:
https://phti.org/assessment/virtual-solutions-anxiety-depression/
3 Shah, Neel; Velez, Fulton F.; Colman, Samuel; Kauffman, Laura; Ruetsch, Charles; Anastassopoulos, Kathryn; et al.
(2022). Real-world reductions in healthcare resource utilization over 6 months in patients with substance use
disorders treated with a prescription digital therapeutic. Adis Journals. Media available at:
https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.19950266.v3
4 Velez, F. F., Colman, S., Kauffman, L., Ruetsch, C., & Anastassopoulos, K. (2020). Real-world reduction in healthcare
resource utilization following treatment of opioid use disorder with reSET-O, a novel prescription digital
therapeutic. E xpert Review of Pharmacoeconomics & Outcomes Research , 21 (1), 69–76 available at:
https://doi.org/10.1080/14737167.2021.1840357
5 Kaplan A, Mannarino AP, Nickell PV. Evaluating the Impact of Freespira on Panic Disorder Patients' Health
Outcomes and Healthcare Costs within the Allegheny Health Network. Appl Psychophysiol Biofeedback. 2020
Sep;45(3):175-181. doi: 10.1007/s10484-020-09465-0. PMID: 32342249 available at:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32342249/
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

received standard care; reductions were observed in both pharmacy (46%) and medical
(15%) claim costs. 6
● Treatment of chronic insomnia with Somryst showed a two-year cost reduction of $2059
per patient. 7 When costs were compared between patients treated with the digital
therapeutic and a matched cohort on sleep medications, the savings increased
exponentially; six treatments with Somryst were required to avoid a hospitalization or
emergency department visit. 8
There are a variety of DMHT devices currently available in the U.S. that are specific to a mental
health disorder (e.g. major depressive disorder and PTSD) while others target physical
conditions by addressing the mental health component (e.g. chronic pain, anxiety and irritable
bowel syndrome) but only some of these digital therapeutics meet G0552 requirements. We
encourage CMS to expand the G0552 code to include devices that treat physical
conditions with a mental health component, as well as many others that do not meet
current device classification requirements.
As we noted in our response to the CY 2025 proposed Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, we
believe requiring clearance under 21 CFR 882.5801 is unduly narrow. This regulation, originally
intended as a catch-all for computerized behavioral therapy devices, does not encompass the
current diversity of products that could be used as DMHT devices. As a result of further
innovation, FDA has since established additional regulatory device classifications tailored to
different device types or indications for use and their respective patient risks and regulatory
needs. Many of these new device classifications may be appropriately furnished “incident to” the
services of a qualified health practitioner. These classifications include:
● Computerized Behavioral Therapy for the Treatment of Fibromyalgia Symptoms (21 CFR
885.5804)
● Computerized Behavioral Therapy Device for Treating Symptoms of Gastrointestinal
Conditions (21 CFR 879.5960)Digital Therapeutic Software for Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder (21 CFR 882.5803)
● Digital Therapy Device to Reduce Sleep Disturbance for Psychiatric Conditions (e.g.,
nightmare disorder, PTSD, etc.) (21 CFR 882.5705)
6 Miller, C., Bradley, D., Hall, S., Hayes, H., Chowdhury, S., & Sampson, C. (2025). Health care cost savings with digital
cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (SleepioRx), a real-world evaluation at a population scale. Journal of
Managed Care + Specialty Pharmacy, 31(3-a), S46.
7 Forma F, Knight TG, Thorndike FP, Xiong X, Baik R, Velez FF, Maricich YA, Malone DC. Real-World Evaluation of
Clinical Response and Long-Term Healthcare Resource Utilization Patterns Following Treatment with a Digital
Therapeutic for Chronic Insomnia. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2022 Aug 10;14:537-546. doi:
10.2147/CEOR.S368780. PMID: 35983014; PMCID: PMC9379126.
8 Forma, F et al. EE364 Reduced Healthcare Resource Use in Patients With Chronic Insomnia After Treatment With a
Digital Therapeutic With 2-Year Follow-Up Value in Health, Volume 25, Issue 12, S126 available at:
https://www.valueinhealthjournal.com/article/S1098-3015(22)02814-5/fulltext
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

As further innovation happens, FDA is likely to create new device categories tailored to new
DMHT device types as technology and treatment modalities evolve. Limiting coding and
payment to devices cleared under one specific regulation unnecessarily restricts access to
these important devices and does not align with the Agency’s goal of expanding access to these
valuable behavioral health treatments.
c. Eliminate Unnecessary Limitations and Uncertainty Regarding Existing
Benefit Categories for Digital Health Solutions
To promote innovation in health care, we strongly encourage CMS to continue reviewing
coverage pathways and making modifications to coverage criteria and current reimbursement
frameworks to accommodate the innovative and diverse characteristics of digital health
solutions. While we recognize CMS is focused on de-regulation efforts, we note that lack of
clarity regarding coverage of digital health products by Medicare and Medicaid can also stifle
innovation due to the uncertainty it creates for investors and innovators and ask that CMS
prioritize guidance in this area. For example, providing specific guidance regarding Medicare
Advantage and Medicaid coverage of digital therapeutics and other digital health solutions.
A broad range of digital therapeutics are available without Medicare coverage for a variety of
indications including diabetes, musculoskeletal, respiratory, neurological, women’s health,
irritable bowel syndrome, and more will continue to enter the U.S. market. We encourage the
Agency to build upon its recent progress by expanding the types of digital health products that
are covered when provided “incident to” a physician’s services, and continuing to approve
medical equipment coverage for innovative products beyond MedRhythm’s InTandem and
AppliedVR’s RelieVRx.
d. Eliminate Arbitrary Restrictions on Remote Monitoring and Ensure Fair
Payment
A critical issue for the remote monitoring (RM) industry has been the arbitrary 16-day data
requirement for remote physiolo gic and remote therapeutic monitoring devices over a 30-day
period. This restriction lacks clinical relevance, and industry feedback indicates that in some
cases, 16 days of data can lead to inaccurate or misleading diagnoses and treatments. ATA
Action has long urged CMS to address this limitation. In late 2024, the American Medical
Association’s CPT panel accepted a proposal to create two distinct device supply codes: one for
2-15 days of monitoring and another for 16 or more days. ATA Action strongly urges CMS to
adopt these new codes and establish fair reimbursement rates.
Since the introduction of remote physiologic monitoring codes in 2019, average Medicare
reimbursement for these services has decreased by between 7% and 28%, outpacing overall
reductions in the Physician Fee Schedule conversion factor. This trend has led to significant
challenges for providers, particularly those in rural areas, as geographic adjustments intended
to align payments with local costs of living further reduce reimbursement. If CMS continues to
decrease reimbursement rates, hospital systems and providers will not continue to utilize these
critical technologies, and many RM organizations will shut down.
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

e. Address Existing Benefit Requirement for Transitional Coverage of
Emerging Technologies
We applaud the efforts made by CMS to promote Medicare reimbursement of emerging
technologies. Under the TCET final rule, Medicare reimbursement is limited to technologies that
qualify under an existing benefit category. While this may allow for reimbursement of some
products, there are many digital health products that do not fit into an existing benefit category.
For example, as discussed above only a narrow range of SaMD PDTs are covered under the
new DMHT G codes, and a limited number of therapeutic products with a device component
have been given HCPCS codes due to the Agency’s historic position that PDTs are not covered
as durable medical equipment.
We encourage CMS to consider alternative requirements to an existing benefit category, or the
establishment of a temporary code under existing benefit categories that allows for
reimbursement for a limited time (e.g. 1-2 years) to allow CMS to further evaluate the
technology and to the extent appropriate and feasible develop new codes and payment policies
for permanent Medicare coverage.
We note that other countries have adopted a preliminary coverage period to encourage
innovation while allowing for the government to evaluate the product for permanent coverage
and establish pricing. For example, Germany’s DiGA program allows for one year of coverage
while manufacturers build their case for permanent coverage. 9
5. Adopt Reasonable Durable Medical Equipment Requirements for Software
Products
We strongly encourage CMS to revise its DME regulations and standards to address the
needs of digital health companies. In particular, we suggest the Agency:
● Revise the accreditation standards to account for the unique qualities of digital
health products;
● Address how digital health products can be covered under DME coverage
policies;
● Align DME payment policy to account for the duration of digital health products in
treatment plans with the understanding that transfer of title is not always
warranted; and
● Establish criteria within the statutory requirements for DME that would enable
appropriate digital health products (e.g. PDTs) to qualify (e.g. eliminating
non-statutory limitations such as the ability to be rented or used by multiple
patients).
9 More information about the DiGA program available at:
https://www.bfarm.de/EN/Medical-devices/Tasks/DiGA-and-DiPA/Digital-Health-Applications/_node.html
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

6. Address Unnecessary Contractor Obstacles
We suggest that the Agency’s deregulation efforts include removing unnecessary hurdles
created by MACs for digital health product reimbursement providing guidance to auditors to
avoid the imposition of criteria and standards in excess of what is required by existing law,
regulations, and guidance.
a. PTAN Numbers
Unique numbers like National Provider Identifiers (NPI) and Provider Transaction Access
Numbers (PTAN) are used to verify providers and suppliers (“Providers”) participating in
Medicare. HIPAA transaction rules require that all Providers have a unique NPI that is utilized
for all transactions including billing government payors, and as a result all Providers may go
through the process of obtaining an NPI number.
When a provider utilizes tools made available by a local Medicare administrative contractor
(MAC), a PTAN is also required. While this number is described as a “Medicare specific”
requirement, in practice lack of a PTAN limits a Provider’s ability to participate in Medicaid
and impacts the ability of managed care organizations to contract for the Provider’s
products/services.
Suppliers of innovative products that do not fit squarely into existing benefit categories are
unable to obtain PTAN numbers when the products and services they provide are not payable
by Medicare. Specifically, we are aware of digital health product manufacturers who have
obtained NPI numbers and are DMEPOS accredited whose requests for PTAN numbers have
been denied.
We suggest that the limitations placed on obtaining PTANs be removed in the following
scenarios:
● Providers with NPI numbers that are billing third party payors utilizing codes that are not
payable by Medicare; and
● Providers that are DMEPOS accredited.
b. MAC G0552 Guidance
We believe in creating the G0552 device code the Agency indicated its intent to pay for devices
meeting the requirements articulated in the CY 2025 Physician Fee Schedule (PFS). However,
it has been brought to our attention that some MACs are questioning the necessity of payment
for G0552 devices rather than establishing rates. With this in mind, we would like to reiterate our
recommendations for MAC guidance with respect to the new DMHT codes by taking the
following steps to ensure timely and accurate claims review, processing, and payment for
G0552 devices:
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org

● Provide guidance to the MACs regarding covered G0552 devices and considerations for
valuation; and
● Instruct the MACs to develop a timely and transparent process for G0552 device claims
review.
As we noted in our comments to the proposed CY 2025 PFS, manufacturers of DMHT devices
incur significant research, development, and regulatory costs, which companies consider in
establishing pricing to health care professionals for G0552 devices. As a result, we ask that
these factors be taken into account by the MACs when establishing G0552 device rates.
7 . Safe Harbor Proposal to Support Access-Enhancing Technologies
ATA Action urges the Department of Health and Human Services and the Centers for Medicare
& Medicaid Services to consider modernizing the Anti-Kickback Statute (AKS) to better reflect
today's healthcare delivery environment. Originally enacted in 1972, the AKS is a critical tool in
preventing fraud and abuse, yet its broad and outdated language inadvertently hinders
legitimate, technology-driven solutions that improve patient access and care efficiency. Online
health information service providers—such as appointment booking platforms—serve a vital role
in helping patients connect with appropriate providers, yet under current law, these services
may fall into legal ambiguity due to perceived AKS violations.
To address this, we support the creation of a new safe harbor that would clarify permissible
arrangements between providers and digital health platforms, provided appropriate safeguards
are in place. ATA Action, alongside more than 30 organizations in the Health ACCESS Alliance,
supports the bipartisan Health ACCESS Act, which would establish these guidelines. Such
regulatory clarity will empower health systems, clinics, and independent providers to reduce
no-show rates, optimize provider time, and offer timely, lower-cost care to patients—including
those covered by federal programs—without risking legal repercussions. We respectfully
request that HHS-OIG use its authority under Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act to
enact a safe harbor reflecting these principles and enabling a more modern, equitable, and
efficient healthcare system.
Thank you for the opportunity to respond to this important request for information. If you have
any questions or would like to discuss further, please email me at kzebley@ataaction.org . We
look forward to working with you to ensure all regulations and laws allow for continued
innovation and do not impede access to care.
Kind regards,
Kyle Zebley
Executive Director
ATA Action
ATA ACTION
Info@ataaction.org