June 16, 2025
Submitted via Regulations.gov [DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION IS MONDAY, JUNE 16, 23:59Hrs]
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
Mail Stop C4-26-05
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244-1850
Re: RFI | Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear CMS Team:
As the CEO of Froedtert ThedaCare Health, I am writing to share my support for the
Administration’s efforts to accelerate the modernization of the health tech ecosystem. I’d like to
thank you in advance for your commitment to patients, their caregivers and care teams. I
appreciate the “growth mindset” reflected in the RFI, and am hopeful that it helps unify
stakeholders as we tackle the challenges facing our industry.
Froedtert ThedaCare Health serves the Milwaukee and the Appleton/Fox Cities areas, with
eighteen hospitals and 360 outpatient locations in Wisconsin. We have over 22,000 employees. In
addition to bearing risk on our employee population, we participate in multiple risk-bearing
arrangements, including ACOs for Medicare patient populations.
Early on, Froedtert ThedaCare Health understood the possibilities for transforming the health
system of today into the health system of tomorrow. The system of tomorrow is built on whole
person health all the time, not just when patients are in front of their doctors. It is both proactive
and reactive to a person's needs. It is deeply rooted in the community as a trusted health partner
for managing health, not just for sick care.
At the core of any solution aligned to these transformational goals is the need to access,
exchange and share whole person data in real time. At Froedtert ThedaCare Health we have been
on that journey for 5 years. Here is what is working:
● We launched a branded patient-facing application (Ripple by ThedaCare) as a platform
for delivering a connected health experience for consumers, serving as a digitally native
home for their healthcare across all care settings.
● Ripple by ThedaCare provides proactive communications to patients on prevention and
condition management at a personalized level. It uses evidence-based preventive
medicine guidelines, data science-driven personalization and patients’ communication
preferences (text vs. in-app notification vs. email) to surface and close care gaps and drive
actions, which are far superior to industry benchmarks.
● Before there were patient access API endpoints, we enabled the patient right of access
from our own EMR system and from external data sources, and later integrated patient
access API endpoints as they became available, so patients could manage a personal

Page 2
health record across all of the places where they receive care, not just at Froedtert
ThedaCare Health.
● We launched digital identity proofing, so patients can securely authenticate themselves to
access their ThedaCare clinical data, with less friction than remembering their patient
portal login.
● We offer a feature called Health Circle, to give patients and families more agency in how
they make healthcare decisions as a household and for loved ones.
● We have additional applications within our system that are in the same realm and
experience similar issues as mentioned above
All these efforts lay the foundation for a complete vision for empowered patients and families -
allowing us to help them feel understood by a trusted health partner so we can more capably
anticipate their health needs, share timely and relevant insights and recommendations, and drive
them towards health and prevention, instead of just reacting with “sick care”.
While we have made substantial progress, there is still much more we can do. If we are faithful
to the Cures Act interoperability mandates, we should be thinking expansively to finish the work
on full and complete data access, exchange and sharing for essential purposes – especially
patient access, treatment, care coordination, and population health – by reinforcing expectations
of bi-directional data sharing on open standards that minimize special effort and don't involve
added costs, degraded performance, or use restrictions. We need to finish that work, largely by
enforcing the rules that already exist. At the same time, we should declare success with
meaningful use of certified EHR technologies, by moving certification onto the inputs and outputs
to these systems, and making these edge cases secure and frictionless. In this way, we can build
an interconnected and interactive health system on a more durable foundation.
I. Enforce Existing Mandates
A. Bulk (Backend) FHIR APIs
Because we manage large patient populations (in the magnitude of 100,000s), it’s critical for us
to access data from our EHR system easily and without special effort, added cost or use
restrictions. In order to effectively manage the health of any population, and to leverage
advanced technologies like large language models (LLMs), we must be able to access data from
all core systems of record.
Bulk (or “backend”) data access APIs based on open standards are intended to accommodate
requests on whole populations. Unfortunately, right now these APIs have become a limiting factor.
Sometimes, our ability to retrieve data from our own EHR systems through these APIs is limited
to increments of 1,000 records, possibly due to the legacy nature of how EHR systems were built.
The result is, we cannot access the data we need on whole populations in a timely way to support
our transformation goals, or to support the Administration's goals of moving all Medicare
beneficiaries into value-based arrangements by 2030.
Interoperability mandates set open standards as a floor, but they also encourage a “race to the
top”. The functional objective of bulk FHIR APIs is population services. We need these mandates
enforced without being steered into other solutions that limit our ability to access or use our own
data, or cause us to pay more.

Page 3
B. Data Sharing by Health Care Providers and HIEs
The Cures Act set an expectation for data sharing. Unfortunately, due to lack of enforcement and
regulatory guidance, labs and pharmacies are not supporting interoperability through standard
patient access APIs data on equal terms. Many support a small handful of consumer facing
applications. For our patients, this means they cannot connect their lab and pharmacy data to
their PHR in Ripple. Instead, to get a longitudinal view of baseline and trends on labs, they must
connect to each of their ordering practitioners. The problem is, many practitioners are not
supporting interoperability mandates: They haven't activated their patient access APIs and/or
they don't participate in trusted exchange, or if they do participate in our regional HIE, their HIE
does not yet support patient access. This means critical information for managing health is
missing, to help us know how our patients are doing, and keep them healthy.
Similarly, we cannot know what medications a patient is really taking, understand treatment
adherence, address coverage gaps, or perform an accurate medication reconciliation. We,
patients and their caregivers need to have an accurate record of what's in a patient’s medicine
cabinet for their health and safety. But even when pharmacies are subject to info blocking
mandates, they claim it is infeasible to support patient access.
For us to be successful with delivering whole person, proactive health care, instead of sick care,
we need every health care provider to participate in interoperability mandates. That means
enforcing the laws we have now.
II. Expand Some Mandates
A. Portalitis: An Affliction We Can Eradicate
We aim for empowered patients, and that means helping patients participate meaningfully in
their health journey. This is why we invested early in patient access, so we could respect patient
wishes to get care inside and out of the health system, while still allowing us to understand their
health journey and be their trusted health partner.
But this participation brings a lot of friction, which we know is avoidable. That friction has a name,
and it’s called “portalitis”, it’s the overwhelming burden we place on patients and caregivers to:
● Manage multiple patient portal credentials
● Navigate complex multi-factor authentication workflows
● Re-authenticate to an endpoint multiple times because of expired refresh and access
tokens
● Maintain access to fragmented health information
In the three years since launching digital ID capabilities in Ripple, we’ve given patients a way to
easily access their health data from our EHR systems, without concerns for compromised security.
Now we need to scale adoption and use of digital ID through trusted data exchange. We’ve seen
the successful implementation of federated digital ID solutions over networks through b.well
Connected Health, one of our technology vendors. Now, we would like to see it scale up through
the trusted networks and expand it to the patient access APIs of health care providers and plans.

Page 4
In our experience, the single biggest drop off point for users wanting access to their full medical
record is the portal credential step in the process.
Short-lived refresh tokens, tokens that break and consumer education that introduces hesitancy
in patient-directed access are friction points in the workflows of current patient access API
endpoints. Under a federated identity framework, these friction points go away.
B. Moving Certification Off EHRs, and Onto APIs
Data Access Should Be Table Stakes. To Drive Change, Let’s Talk About Access To Care
The interoperability mandates are rightfully centered on data access, but we now need to focus
on expanding API mandates for use cases at the boundary edge to EHR systems. In other words,
adding new conditions of certification that promote the adoption of APIs that support bi-
directional exchange between EHRs and other applications to support real-time scheduling, in-
basket messaging for prescription refills, requests to correct medical record errors, real-time price
transparency tools, filling out forms and completing verification of eligibility and coverage.
Some of the larger EHRs are already equipped to provide these APIs. However, due to their
proprietary nature, we are not allowed to make them available for use by our other vendor
partners. Or, they may be priced in a manner that prevents their affordability for use.
Both of these practices stifle our ability to innovate to what our populations need. On the other
hand, many smaller EHRs do not provide these native capability APIs at all making transitions of
care difficult. These are reasons why we ask the Administration to move Meaningful Use
certification requirements off the EHR workflows and on to the APIs that surround the EHR,
opening up guaranteed innovation advancement if the mandate comes with the following
stipulations:
1) That all core APIs surrounding data access (individual and Bulk) and service access APIs
that cover all actions performed at the point of care (ex: scheduling, messaging, RX Refill,
etc.) are mandated with penalties and are required to be published transparently.
2) That third parties get the same API/hardware access as the EHRs own apps.
3) The APIs must be free (covered by the EHR software license) and effective (not degraded),
with no exclusive features for first-party (EHR) apps.
* * *
We look forward to continuing the work of advancing data exchange and empowering consumers
together. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions.
/s/
Imran Andrabi MD
CEO