 Comment Letter: CMS-0042-NC – Health Technology Ecosystem RFI Response Submitted by: Full Tilt Data, LLC | CAGE: 9TQ96 | UEI: RC89X7KXQAQ6 Re: Request for Information – Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC) Date: June 13, 2025 Submitted To: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Full Tilt Data is pleased to have the opportunity to respond to CMS-0042-NC, “Health Technology Ecosystem.” Full Tilt Data has important perspective as a commercial contractor supporting the data ecosystem and data reporting for Nursing Homes (NH), Hospices and Post-Acute Care (PAC) providers, specifically Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNF), Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (IRF), Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals (LTCH) and Home Health Agencies (HHA) on behalf of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The Full Tilt Data team possesses in depth knowledge and skills specific to how and what technical format the data for these providers are conveyed to CMS, as well as how they are stored and leveraged for payment, survey and quality reporting purposes including quality measure and payment calculations and provider reports. This expertise provides Full Tilt Data with unique insights into optimizing data submission requirements and technologies to modernize health data use for Medicare beneficiaries, including data usage to improve care coordination for chronic conditions and enhance patient health and safety through disease and injury prevention. In particular, CMS as a result of the Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act (IMPACT Act) and its requirements to include the standardization of major health assessment fields in the statutorily required PAC patient assessment instruments required of all patients enrolled in Medicare by certified PAC providers, as well as standardized data elements used in the statutorily required PAC Quality Reporting Programs (QRP), is especially well situated to leverage such standardized data to meet the needs discussed in the RFI; addressing challenges with opportunities. We have structured our response to align with the following sections defined in the RFI: Patient Needs(B1), Data Access and Integration(B2), Digital Health Apps(C1), Data Exchange(C2), Payers(D), Ecosystem(E1), Technical Standards(E3), Data Exchange(E4), Digital Health Adoption(F1), Compliance and Certification(F2). 
Section B1: Patient Needs (PC-2) No. CMS does not provide access to the resident and assessment data it requires of post-acute care (PAC) providers, i.e., LTCHs, IRFs, SNFs and HHAs, NHs, hospices and inpatient psychiatric facilities (IPF). To date, that data would have to be requested of the provider or via a FOIA request to CMS. Section B2: Data Access and Integration (PC-8) Statutorily required patient/resident demographic and clinical assessment data required on every Medicare beneficiary that is cared for in a PAC provider, hospice, NH and IPF would be useful for clinical decision support, care decisions, and care coordination. To date, these data have not been made available however they are submitted and stored by CMS electronically. (PC-8.a) Statutorily required patient/resident demographic and clinical assessment data required on every Medicare beneficiary that is cared for in a PAC provider, hospice, NH and IPF. To date, these data have not been made available however they are submitted and stored by CMS electronically. (PC-8.b) Statutorily required patient/resident demographic and clinical assessment data required on every Medicare beneficiary that is cared for in a PAC provider, hospice, NH and IPF. (PC-9) CMS requires NHs, PAC providers, hospices and IPFs submit to CMS patient/resident demographic and clinical assessment data at least admission and discharge on every Medicare Beneficiary that is served in those providers. CMS should make that data available via Blue Button for care coordination, decision support, fraud and abuse detection, care navigation and other purposes including longitudinal analysis. CMS should consider using APIs to transmit the data from the Internet Quality Improvement and Evaluation System (iQIES) for timely use by Medicare Beneficiaries. (PC-9.b) CMS requires NHs, PAC providers, hospices and IPFs submit to CMS patient/resident demographic and clinical assessment data at least admission and discharge on every Medicare Beneficiary that is served in those providers. CMS should make that data available via Blue Button for care coordination, decision support, fraud and abuse detection, care navigation and other purposes including longitudinal analysis. (PC-12) CMS requires NHs, PAC providers, hospices and IPFs submit to CMS patient/resident data at least admission and discharge on every Medicare Beneficiary that is served in those providers. CMS should make that data available for care coordination, decision support, fraud and abuse detection, care navigation and other purposes including longitudinal analysis. (PC-12.a.5.d) CMS could include NH, PAC, IPF, and hospice patient/resident assessment data it requires in the Medicare Beneficiary’s Blue Button, and include information on the provider that submitted such data, e.g., their Stars, metrics on Quality measures, etc. 
 Section C1: Digital Health Apps (PR-2) PAC providers, NHs, Hospices and IPFs were not included in the HITECH incentives and subsequent reporting and EHR certification requirements. This has had languishing and far-reaching impacts for health data integration and interoperable data exchange across the trajectory of a patient’s healthcare experience of care. CMS could take steps toward enabling the use of APIs through its quality and payment programs for how the statutorily required patient/resident clinical and demographic assessment data is submitted to CMS for quality measurement, payment and survey purposes. Section C2: Data Exchange (PR-7) Through the use of APIs, the statutorily required PAC, NH and IPF data could come directly to CMS’ iQIES from the electronic health record the PAC, NH, hospice and IPF providers use. In the current state, CMS uses that data and (unlike hospitals and physician programs) CMS calculates the measures, and payment (IRF, Home Health (HH), SNF PPS) and uses data (e.g., HH, NH) for survey purposes. For these providers, CMS leverages the “collect once, use multiple times model.” With front-line clinicians performing the clinical assessment as they normally do and mapping the data required to the statutorily and regulatorily required assessment data CMS requires could reduce burden and improve workflows. ONC/ASTP could make available to PAC, NH, Hospice and IPFs voluntary certification requirements tailored for these types of providers. CMS could explore potential authorities it could use to require certification requirements, in particular in its VB care models. Through APIs, CMS could greatly enable data from the point-of-care (since the data are clinical in nature) and be used multiple times, including for information exchange across the ecosystem as envisioned under the IMPACT Act, and for other purposes, including for inclusion in Blue Button. These providers, although not incentivized to adopt health IT like hospitals and certain clinicians, having certification requirements that are meaningful to them, USCDI that supports the services they provide, and potentially health IT “light” products the non-incentivized provider types would be encouraged to engage in the interoperable ecosystem along with their hospital and clinician counterparts as such engagement will likely prove out to be an important business model in the long run, despite not having been included in HITECH. 
 Section D: Payers (PR-5.a) CMS receives from PAC providers, NHs and hospices the patient assessment data directly via iQIES. Unlike hospitals and physician programs) CMS calculates the measures, and payments from the data (IRF, HH, SNF PPS) and uses data (e.g., HH, NH) for survey purposes. For these providers, CMS leverages the “collect once, use multiple times model.” CMS also provides near-real-time reports to these providers. CMS could consider modeling this approach for other provider types, such as hospitals. Section E1: Ecosystem (TD-2.a) NH, PAC, hospice and IPF standardized data. CMS could require the submission of such data using APIs which could springboard these providers for their engagement and entrenchment in interoperable data exchange. (TD-2.b) CMS’ statutorily required NH, PAC, hospice and IPF patient/resident assessment data. CMS has not yet made these data available to patients or their proxies (providers, payers, care providers, etc.) and such data could be used for care coordination, including transitions in care, clinical decision support and patient awareness. Such data and source (provider) could include Stars rating and quality performance in a one-stop location for the patient, along with their other clinical information (e.g., claims). Further patients can serve as a front-line consumer of information about their care and are well situated to identify discrepancies in the very health assessment data use for quality, payment and survey purposes. Section E3: Technical Standards (TD-7) USCDI has important limitations in that it does not incorporate statutorily required standardized data in PAC, and NHs, furthering the gap between providers included in HITECH and those that were not (e.g., IPFs, NHs, PAC providers). (TD-7.c) ONC/ASTP should leverage its previous plans to expand USCDI and USCDI plus to include NH, PAC, Hospice and IPF standardized assessment data elements (TD-9.c) Through the use of APIs, the statutorily required PAC, NH and IPF data could come directly to CMS’ iQIES from the electronic health record the PAC, NHs, hospice and IPF providers use. That data is in turn used for quality measurement, payment and for survey purposes. With front-line clinicians performing the clinical assessment as they normally do and mapping the data required to the statutorily and regulatorily required assessment data CMS requires could reduce burden and improve workflows. ONC/ASTP could make available to PAC, NH, Hospice and IPFs voluntary certification requirements tailored for these types of providers. CMS could explore potential authorities it could use to require certification requirements, in particular in its VB care models. 
 Section E4: Data Exchange (TD-13) CMS could use APIs to make available to the patient (proxy), provider and payer the statutorily required PAC, NH and IPF patient (and resident) clinical assessment data that CMS collects. Through the use of APIs, the data could come directly to CMS’ iQIES from the electronic health record the PAC, NH, hospice and IPF providers use. This would also enable data exchange across providers as envisioned under the IMPACT Act for PAC providers and with the broader health care delivery ecosystem. Section F1: Digital Health Adoption (VB-1) CMS possess the opportunity to make NH, hospice, inpatient psychiatric and PAC data available to patients, providers and payers via Blue Button. This would enable timely access to patient clinical assessment data that could be used for care coordination, quality tracing and tracking, and patient (and proxy) awareness. To date, CMS has not made this data available via Blue Button. (VB-3.a) CMS possess the opportunity to make NH, hospice, inpatient psychiatric and PAC data available to patients, providers and payers via Blue Button. This would enable timely access to patient clinical assessment data that could be used for care coordination, quality tracing and tracking, and patient (and proxy) awareness. Section F2: Compliance and Certification (VB-6) CMS could consider requiring the inclusion of specific data elements used for PAC QRP in hospital or other programs that entail health-system wide quality data analysis to inform patient outcomes. For example, functional or cognitive status. This would enable CMS to look across the VBC healthcare delivery ecosystem and perform its analysis on the entirety of the ecosystem. This has been a need discussed in the past during CMS’ presentation to the panels evaluating CMS’ quality measures at an annual Measures Application Partnership meeting. This would require certification requirements to include the capacity to exchange PAC data across the ecosystem and submission of such data to CMS by hospitals as is currently done by PAC, NH and hospice providers. PAC, NH and hospice providers would need to adopt certification requirements which CMS could make voluntary or require that data submitted to CMS be through the use of certified health IT. Statutory authority would have to be established, however CMS does have the authority under the “time, form and manner” provisions for PAC providers in which CMS can require the patient assessment data to come to CMS using the health IT standards (form and manner) it establishes via regulations. Sincerely, Full Tilt Data, LLC Contact: Shane Brass p: 563-260-9920 e: shane.brass@fulltiltdata.com w: www.fulltiltdata.com 