1301 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Suite 400
Washington, D.C. 20004–2654
P :: 202.783.8700
F :: 202.783.8750
W:: AdvaMed.org
February 23, 2025
Via Electronic Mail
Mr. Stephen Posnack
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordination for Health
Information Technology (ASTP/ONC)
Mary E. Switzer Building
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence
as Part of Clinical Care
Dear Mr. Posnack,
AdvaMed, the Advanced Medical Technology Association, appreciates the opportunity to submit
comments in response to your December 23, 2025, request for information1 (RFI) on
accelerating the adoption and use of AI as part of clinical care.
AdvaMed is the world's largest association representing manufacturers of medical devices,
diagnostic products, and medical technology. AdvaMed's member companies, which range from
the largest to the smallest medical product innovators and manufacturers, produce innovations
that transform health care through earlier disease detection, less invasive procedures, and more
effective treatments. AdvaMed advocates for a legal, regulatory and economic environment that
advances global health care by assuring worldwide patient access to the benefits of medical
technology. The Association promotes policies that foster the highest ethical standards, timely
product approvals, appropriate reimbursement, and access to international markets.
We recognize AI as a transformative tool with the potential to improve health outcomes, enhance
the efficiency of patient care, reduce costs, and advance healthcare. Right-sized and clarified
regulations can promote the development, deployment, and adoption of innovative and
trustworthy AI-enabled solutions. AdvaMed is uniquely well-positioned to provide feedback on
1 https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/12/23/2025-23641/request-for-information-accelerating-the-
adoption-and-use-of-artificial-intelligence-as-part-of
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 1 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 2 of 17
frameworks and policy considerations for AI, as our members have been developing and
deploying AI-enabled medical devices supporting patient care for over 25 years.
We appreciate the opportunity to submit our high-level recommendations on regulatory reforms
to accelerate the adoption and use of AI as clinical care.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its
adoption and use in clinical care?
A. Regulation of AI-Enabled Medical Devices
The medical device industry has more than three decades of experience developing AI-enabled
technologies that advance health care. As of December 2025, FDA has authorized over 1,300 AI-
enabled medical devices2, reflecting the sector’s longstanding expertise in innovating AI
applications in health care. This experience underscores a core principle: innovation thrives
when regulatory oversight is transparent, predictable, and capable of keeping pace with
technological advancements. These goals can be achieved by advancing regulatory science
through the issuance of FDA guidance and timely recognition of international consensus
standards, upholding the FDA’s existing risk-based regulatory paradigms while adapting when
needed to accommodate novel technologies, and ensuring FDA is properly resourced to
accomplish these objectives.
B. Coverage and Payment for AI-Enabled Medical Devices
Leaders of this Administration have been outspoken on their concern for the poor health
outcomes in the United States despite the abundant resources at our disposal. AdvaMed and the
broader medtech community share this deep concern. We also know medtech is a proven part of
the solution. Medtech works. But it only works if patients have access to it and clinicians are
empowered to use it. Access is complicated by many factors: inadequate or no health insurance
coverage; lack of provider coverage of medtech-enabled procedures; inadequate provider
reimbursement for medtech-enabled procedures; limited access to specialists and care due to
factors including geography and health care provider shortages; limited understanding of
available treatment options; and other out-of-pocket expenses associated with health care, such
as high deductibles and copayments.
As you know, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) plays a critical role in
patient access to health care and medtech. Medicare, as the nation’s largest health insurer, shapes
the health of its 67 million enrollees. It sets precedent in its coverage policies for Medicaid and
private insurers. Unfortunately, outdated Medicare laws and regulations often create unnecessary
barriers to patient access to many technological innovations, including artificial intelligence
software as a medical device and other items and services, along with digital and at-home care.
For the past eight years, CMS has issued requests for comments or requests for information
related to the adoption of technology and digital medicine, but has taken little action to provide
2 https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/artificial-intelligence-enabled-medical-
devices
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 2 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 3 of 17
clarity on coverage and/or payment for these transformative technologies and the services
performed with them.
Adoption of and subsequent beneficiary access to novel digital health technologies, including AI,
is conditioned on whether there are appropriate Medicare payment pathways that provide
stability and certainty for providers adopting these technologies. While CMS has explored
payment policies in specific cases to recognize the role of software as a service (SaaS), software
as a medical device (SaMD), and AI technologies in health care delivery, a lack of clear and
consistent coverage and payment policies for these categories of technologies significantly limits
access under the Medicare program. Our specific recommendations for revisions to CMS’
regulation of AI and digital health technologies are discussed below.
C. Data Privacy
Access to high-quality data is pivotal for AI model innovation, as it is crucial for development
and validation. Updating data regulatory frameworks, such as HIPAA, to facilitate ethical and
secure data-sharing practices will further enhance the development of sophisticated AI tools.
AI researchers require improved access to healthcare data that is both rich enough to support
meaningful scientific development and sufficiently de-identified to protect patient privacy from
wrongful disclosure or abuse. Policymakers can support advances in healthcare AI innovation by
allowing broader use of healthcare data for research, provided identifiers are removed and other
HIPAA rules are met (e.g., HIPAA’s security requirements and its limitations on “selling” or
marketing without prior written permission).
In parallel, a broad, prospective informed consent framework would enable individuals to
contribute their data to a centralized repository for future research, enabling reuse across studies
and institutions.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS
prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS
regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or
use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal
Regulations citations.
A. Regulation of AI-Enabled Medical Devices
Effective clinical use of AI-enabled medical devices depends on the development and
availability of safe, effective technologies—a responsibility shared by industry and FDA.
Medical device manufacturers have a strong record of advancing health care with innovative,
reliable AI-enabled devices, and FDA has a long history of reviewing and authorizing such
devices. Once in clinical use, both parties continue to monitor device safety through their
respective regulatory requirements and responsibilities. FDA’s existing premarket and post-
market regulations ensure patients and clinicians have access to trustworthy devices. However,
by prioritizing certain programmatic improvements, the availability of AI-enabled devices in
clinical use can be accelerated without compromising safety or performance.
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 3 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 4 of 17
The De Novo3 premarket regulatory pathway outlined in 21 CRF Part 860, Subpart D, was
created with the goal of fostering the development of innovative medical devices of low to
moderate risk. Since its inception in 1997, FDA has authorized approximately 450 devices
through the De Novo paradigm. However, FDA’s performance reports4 indicate that less than
50% of De Novo submissions are granted. This low rate of success is in stark contrast to the
other premarket pathways (>80% success rate for 510(k) submissions annually). The De Novo
program would benefit from greater transparency and consistency in FDA’s evidentiary
expectations for De Novo submissions. FDA has the authority to implement adaptive, risk-based
paradigms, such as increasing the utilization of real-world evidence and conditional authorization
with post-market obligations, that if implemented consistently, could meaningfully increase the
success rate of the De Novo program and increase patient access and clinical use of AI-enabled
devices without compromising patient safety.
In 2022, Congress passed predetermined change control plan (PCCP) legislation5. The PCCP
authority enables manufacturers to innovate more efficiently and rapidly while still ensuring the
safety and effectiveness of the device. For AI-enabled devices, in particular, it enables the
regulatory framework to keep better pace with the rapid innovation inherent to AI, thereby
ensuring clinicians and patients have timely access to improved devices. This authority is a
promising example of how new and right-sized policy development can occur in response to
changes in technology or regulatory needs. FDA’s AI PCCP guidance document6 is a valuable
tool to promote consistent understanding and implementation of this new process. However, it is
important that FDA’s implementation of the PCCP framework continues to evolve as AI
technology and its use in medical devices continue to evolve. A restrictive or static approach to
implementation of the PCCP authority diminishes its intended efficiency to implement device
improvements. We encourage FDA to authorize PCCPs that promote efficient post-market
changes for AI-enabled devices. If implemented with the intended flexibility, authorized PCCPs
can enable the regulatory frameworks to keep pace with the rapid innovation inherent to AI.
Clear and well-scoped guidance is a valuable tool that helps innovators understand regulatory
expectations and supports the development of safe and effective devices. In January 2025, FDA
issued draft guidance on lifecycle management and marketing submission recommendations for
3 Congress authorized the De Novo classification process in the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act
(FDAMA) of 1997. The De Novo classification process is authorized under section 513(f)(2) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FD&C Act). FDA De Novo regulations are outlined in 21 CFR Part 860, Subpart D
4 https://www.fda.gov/industry/medical-device-user-fee-amendments-mdufa-fees/mdufa-reports
5 On December 29, 2022, section 3308 of the Food and Drug Omnibus Reform Act of 2022, Title III of Division FF
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, Pub. L. No. 117-328 (“FDORA”) added section 515C
“Predetermined Change Control Plans for Devices” to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic (FD&C) Act. Section
515C of the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 360e-4) has provisions regarding predetermined change control plans (PCCPs)
for devices.
6 FDA’s guidance titled, “Marketing Submission Recommendations for a Predetermined Change Control Plan for
Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Device Software Functions” was issued as a final guidance document in August
2025. https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/marketing-submission-
recommendations-predetermined-change-control-plan-artificial-intelligence
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 4 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 5 of 17
AI-enabled devices7. It important that the recommendations in the final guidance are
appropriately scoped to align with FDA’s established risk-based and least burdensome regulatory
principles. Advanced AI systems, such as deep learning and deep neural network models, present
unique validation and lifecycle management considerations that may warrant targeted regulatory
attention. By contrast, more traditional or less complex machine learning approaches are
generally well addressed under existing FDA frameworks. However, the draft guidance appears
to apply a one-size-fits-all approach to all AI-enabled devices. It is important that the final
guidance distinguish between these categories to allow FDA to focus oversight where risk and
uncertainty are greatest while avoiding unnecessary regulatory burden for established
technologies. Additionally, certain elements of the current draft, particularly the blanket
recommendations for enhanced post-market oversight and the extensive transparency and
documentation requirements would create substantial burden without proportionate clinical
benefit. We encourage FDA to continue refining these elements in the final guidance to ensure
that recommendations therein remain clinically meaningful and consistent with the least
burdensome provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Early and frequent dialogue between innovators and FDA reviewers helps enhance mutual
understanding and can facilitate the development of innovative devices. Direct one-on-one
engagement between FDA and innovators throughout the device development phase, such as
through FDA’s Breakthrough Devices Program8, can reduce regulatory surprises and accelerate
the path to market for medical devices. A stable and appropriately-resourced FDA that attracts
and retains top talent ensures the FDA workforce has the right knowledge base to keep pace with
the rate of innovation and promotes consistency during the regulatory review phase. Continued
support and reauthorization of user fee agreements like MDUFA9 are vital because they ensure
accountability and resource availability for both the FDA and industry.
B. Securing Coverage and Payment for AI Under CMS’ Payment Systems
As noted above, a lack of clear and consistent coverage and payment policies for AI and digital
health technologies significantly limits beneficiary access to novel and innovative technologies
under the Medicare program. Below are our recommendations for specific changes to CMS’
regulations to expand access to AI and related technologies.
1. Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS)
7 FDA draft guidance; “Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Device Software Functions: Lifecycle Management and
Marketing Submission Recommendations” https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-
documents/artificial-intelligence-enabled-device-software-functions-lifecycle-management-and-marketing
8 The Breakthrough Devices Program is implemented under section 515B of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act (FD&C Act) (21 U.S.C. 360e-3), as created by section 3051 of the 21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act),
amended by section 901 of the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017, and amended by Section 3001 of the SUPPORT
for Patients and Communities Act (the SUPPORT Act) (the “Breakthrough Devices Program”). The Breakthrough
Devices Program is a voluntary program for certain medical devices and device-led combination products that
provide for more effective treatment or diagnosis of life-threatening or irreversibly debilitating diseases or
conditions.
9 Medical Device User Fee Amendments (MDUFA); https://www.fda.gov/industry/fda-user-fee-programs/fda-user-
fees-explained
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 5 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 6 of 17
a. New Technology Ambulatory Payment Classification (APC) Improvements
In the CY 2023 OPPS/ASC final rule, CMS established a policy for the separate payment of
SaaS add-on codes, excluding SaaS from the packaged payment policy at 42 CFR 419.2(b)(18).
We are greatly encouraged by CMS acknowledging the uniqueness of these technologies, and
recognizing the need for separate payment and consideration of these services. As CMS
recognized in the CY 2023 OPPS/ASC final rule, the number of such services going through the
FDA review process has and will continue to rapidly increase. We encourage CMS to provide
much needed stability and certainty regarding SaaS by formalizing the exception to the packaged
payment policy in regulatory text. We further recommend CMS establish a dedicated section of
the OPPS rule to SaMD and related technologies moving forward, as opposed to limiting
discussion and consideration of these services within the New Technology APC section of the
preamble text.
Beyond the current SaaS pathway, we believe additional changes are needed to ensure
appropriate payment systems are in place for novel SaMD, including algorithm-based healthcare
services (ABHS)10. We therefore offer the following three recommendations.
First, we ask the agency to revise the New Technology Ambulatory Payment Classification
(APC) application process for these FDA-regulated, software-based interventions. The
application process and criteria should be tailored to the unique characteristics of these
technologies, while staying true to the policy priorities CMS established as part of the current
New Technology APC application requirements (including the creation of procedural C-codes as
needed). As an example, the application should reflect the impact of a SaMD on care pathways
and how these services assist practitioners in the delivery of care.
Second, we encourage CMS to modify the current New Technology APC policies as they relate
to SaMD both currently assigned to a New Technology APC and for future technologies
(including via a potential New Technology APC for SaMD application pathway). Specifically,
we recommend CMS: (1) provide stability for SaMD developers by assigning these technologies
to a New Technology APC for at least five years; and (2) waive the Universal Low Volume APC
policy for these technologies when assigned to a New Technology APC. Both recommendations
are intended to ensure stability during the New Technology APC period. As it relates to the five-
year price stability period, we note this would align with the lifespan of a Category III code and
is necessary to ensure appropriate data collection and analysis can occur while hospitals adopt
novel SaMD. Further, this five-years of assigned payment stability is intended to ensure there are
not variations in New Technology APC assignment based on misreported or omitted cost
information. In recent years, including the CY 2024 OPPS/ASC final rule, we have seen how the
existing policies create payment aberrations that pose serious threats to the adoption of these
novel SaMD, such as confusion among adopters and a chilling effect on innovation.
10 ABHS are clinical analytical services delivered by FDA-cleared devices to a healthcare practitioner that use
artificial intelligence, machine learning, or other similarly designed software to produce clinical outputs for the
diagnosis or treatment of a patient’s condition. ABHS provide quantitative and qualitative analyses, including new,
additional clinical outputs that detect, analyze, or interpret data to improve screening, detection, diagnosis, and
treatment of disease.
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 6 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 7 of 17
Third, we urge CMS to be proactive in considering clinical APC assignments for SaMD. While
some technologies can be appropriately assigned to an existing clinical APC, CMS should begin
to consider policy options for future SaMD that may not meet the criteria for assignment to
current clinical APCs. In recognition of the continual evolution of SaMD, we urge CMS to
continue to work with developers to ensure these technologies can be appropriately transitioned
out of New Technology APC payments after five years and be assigned to an appropriate clinical
APC, including potentially creating new APCs when necessary.
b. Transitional Pass-Through Payment (TPT) Improvements
Under TPT and the new technology APC policies for eligible new devices, CMS provides higher
payments to aid with the uptake by hospitals of eligible new medical devices. The current TPT
criteria specifically require a device must —
• Be an integral part of the service furnished;
• Be used for one patient only;
• Come in contact with human tissue; and
• Be surgically implanted or inserted (either permanently or temporarily) or applied in or
on a wound or other skin lesion.
Furthermore, the device cannot be any of the following:
• Equipment, an instrument, apparatus, implement, or item of this type for which
depreciation and financing expenses are recovered as depreciable assets; or
• A material or supply furnished incident to a service (for example, a suture, customized
surgical kit, scalpel, or clip, other than radiological site marker).
As AI and SaMD are increasingly introduced for more and more procedures and frequently
include components that do not come into contact with patients or represent a capital
expenditure, these criteria are inappropriately exclusionary for these technologies. In particular,
because capital costs are included in establishing the APC payment rate, the same rationale
applies equally when calculating the operating costs for pass-through payments. We therefore
urge CMS to consider improvements to the TPT program allowing SaMD and other technologies
that do not come into contact with patients, but enable clinicians to provide optimal care to be
eligible for additional payments under this program.
2. Physician Fee Schedule
We encourage CMS to consider holistic updates to its fee-for-service payment systems to reflect
the significant resource investments required to adopt and implement not only SaMD, but the
broader scope of workflow and process improvement software and related technologies. These
investments extend beyond procurement of a software license and include cybersecurity updates,
staff training, and hardware procurement. While these costs are typically considered indirect and
therefore not reimbursable, we encourage the agency to consider how they might be incorporated
into annual market basket updates or other update factors to ensure appropriate accounting for
provider costs. Given the new and innovative nature of SaMD, we recommend CMS consider
payment policies that are harmonized across payment systems and reflect that many of these
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 7 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 8 of 17
technologies may lack historical claims data. As one option, CMS may consider utilizing G
codes for supply of SaMD and the associated monitoring. This approach, which the agency has
already similarly implemented in its DMHT payment policy, would apply to SaMD that have an
FDA indication, have undergone rigorous clinical and safety reviews, and include quality
controls. The physician could procure the license, prescribe to the patient, and receive
reimbursement.
In addition to bringing consistency to payment, this approach would further allow CMS to
recognize the critical and distinct value of the different types of SaMD. Technologies designed
for chronic care management, preventative care, and early diagnosis are all vastly different with
varying costs and substantial potential value for patients, clinicians, and the health care system.
We encourage the agency to implement payment policies that reflect the diversity of individual
SaMD and the collective benefits these technologies offer.
3. Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS) Fee Schedule
The DME benefit category can be used for certain SaMD that meet the regulatory definition of
DME. However, the current definition creates significant barriers to access under this program.
We strongly recommend CMS revise its DME regulations to provide more specific direction for
how digital therapeutic software technologies can be covered and paid under the program by:
• Clarifying DME coverage policies to reflect how digital therapeutics can be covered as
DME;
• Revising accreditation standards for the special characteristics of SaMD;
• Aligning payment policy with the duration the SaMD technology is intended to be used;
• Ensuring distribution flexibility that supports patient access, understanding that transfer
of title is not always appropriate or desired for these products; and
• Clarifying how the requirements within the statutory definition of DME apply to SaMD
(e.g., recognizing that some digital therapeutic devices, which are regulated by the FDA
as SaMD, have a three-year extended life but may not be appropriate for use by multiple
individuals and thus may not be appropriate for rental).
4. Additional Considerations
a. Accounting for AI-Enabled Devices that Streamline Operations while Improving Outcomes
We further recommend that CMS consider alternative payment pathways for AI-enabled capital
that can substantially reduce waste, enhance workflow efficiencies or improve patient quality
and better outcomes including through medication management. Though inpatient settings may
have historically conducted these internal value assessments, post-acute facilities including
Skilled Nursing Facilities and Behavioral Health settings are limited in their capacity to adopt
new technologies. We recommend that CMS work with industry, hospital, and pharmacy leaders
to envision operational and clinical excellence with a reimbursement pathway to incent it.
b. Accounting for Capital Investment in Standalone AI Technologies under Medicare’s Payment
Systems
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 8 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 9 of 17
Despite the advancements in prevention, treatments and therapies, challenges to access and
disparities in care persist in the US health system. Factors such as geographic inaccessibility,
economics, insurance, QHP shortages, health system bias, race and ethnicity, language and many
other factors contribute to this growing trend. In addition, for many conditions, access to
evidence-based first line therapy is limited at best, reducing care quality, negatively impacting
population health and increasing total health care costs. The very nature of SaMD provides
opportunities to achieve access to evidence-based care at scale, especially for underserved
populations. These innovative technologies are proven to deliver clinically effective treatment
and allow for ongoing care to reach health care deserts where access to QHPs is challenged and
where existing treatments fall short.
In addition to the SaMD recommendations discussed above, we encourage CMS to consider
holistic updates to its fee for service payment systems to reflect the significant resource
investments required to adopt and implement not only SaMD, but the broader scope of workflow
and process improvement software and related technologies. These investments extend beyond
procurement of a software license and include cybersecurity updates, staff training, and hardware
procurement. While these costs are typically considered indirect and therefore not reimbursable,
we encourage the agency to consider how they might be incorporated into annual market basket
updates or other update factors to ensure appropriate accounting for provider costs.
C. Data Privacy Regulatory Updates and Clarifications
1. “Health Care Operations” under HIPAA
We recommend amending the definition of “health care operations” at 45 CFR § 164.501 to
explicitly include AI model development and validation for the delivery, management, or
improvement of health care services, with appropriate guardrails. The current definition of health
care operations permits a HIPAA covered entity to perform specified activities without
individual authorization, including “conducting quality assessment and improvement activities . .
. provided that the obtaining of generalizable knowledge is not the primary purpose of any
studies resulting from such activities.” Where the primary purpose of such activities is obtaining
generalizable knowledge, the activity would instead be categorized as research, as defined at 45
CFR § 164.501. However, as HHS itself has recognized, the distinction between quality
assessment and improvement activities and research can be unclear. This is often the case in the
context of product innovation, where the line between health care operations-type improvements
and research and development can be difficult to discern. When evaluating activities that fall
within this gray area, covered entities must choose between following HIPAA’s research rules,
which require the entity to obtain certain permissions and take additional compliance steps,
thereby delaying initiation of the activity, or risking enforcement exposure if a regulator
disagrees with the covered entity’s conclusion that the activity qualifies as health care operations.
Proposed language: Amend paragraph (1) of the definition of “health care operations” in 45 CFR
§ 164.501:
Health care operations means any of the following activities of the covered entity to
the extent that the activities are related to covered functions:
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 9 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 10 of 17
(1) Conducting quality assessment and improvement activities, including
outcomes evaluation and development of clinical guidelines, provided that the
obtaining of generalizable knowledge is not the primary purpose of any
studies resulting from such activities; AI model development and validation
for the delivery, management, or improvement of health care services; patient
safety activities (as defined in 42 CFR 3.20); population-based activities
relating to improving health or reducing health care costs, protocol
development, case management and care coordination, contacting of health
care providers and patients with information about treatment alternatives; and
related functions that do not include treatment.
The proposed modifications would help provide certainty to covered entities that encounter this
ambiguity when developing and improving AI models used for specified health care purposes. It
would also enable them to fast-track AI innovations by not subjecting lower-risk activities to the
burdensome HIPAA research rules. In addition, with its purpose limitation, including by
extending health care operations model development only to internal activities, the proposal
maintains protections for individuals, requiring compliance with existing HIPAA rules where
protected health information (PHI) is sought to be used for other purposes.
2. HIPAA De-Identification Safe Harbor Flexibility
We recommend enhancing the flexibility of the de-identification standard at 45 CFR § 164.514
by allowing Safe Harbor de-identified datasets to retain otherwise restricted indirect identifiers
that are important for AI development. HIPAA provides two means through which PHI may be
de-identified. The first is the Safe Harbor method, which requires the removal of specified data
elements and the absence of actual knowledge that the remaining information can be used to
identify an individual. The second requires a formal determination from a qualified expert that,
based on an analysis meeting certain criteria, the risk of re-identifying an individual in the
dataset is very small. Once data has been de-identified under either method, it is no longer
subject to HIPAA’s restrictions on the use and disclosure of PHI. This makes HIPAA de-
identified data valuable for various purposes, including AI product development and training.
The Safe Harbor method is generally easier to apply, as it does not require specialized
knowledge that most organizations do not have in-house. This allows internal teams to de-
identify data as needed in the regular course of their operations. The expert determination
method, however, usually requires organizations to engage a third-party expert, which demands
valuable time, money, and other valuable resources. Notwithstanding, many organizations are
forced to rely on the expert-determination method, given its flexibility, which provides a
pathway to creating and using more valuable de-identified datasets. Under that method, an expert
can deem a dataset as de-identified, even if it has data elements that could not be included under
the Safe Harbor, provided the expert’s analysis meets HIPAA requirements. Dates related to
individuals (e.g., date of service) and zip codes are examples of data elements that HIPAA-
regulated entities often identify as valuable for product development that must be excluded from
a Safe Harbor de-identified dataset, and that often are approved through expert determinations.
Proposed language: Amend 45 C.F.R. § 164.514(b)(2) by adding paragraphs 45 C.F.R. §
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 10 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 11 of 17
164.514(b)(2)(iii) and (iv):
(b) Implementation specifications: Requirements for de-identification of protected
health information. A covered entity may determine that health information is
not individually identifiable health information only if:
. . .
(2) (i) The following identifiers of the individual or of relatives, employers, or
household members of the individual, are removed:
(A) Names;
(B) All geographic subdivisions smaller than a State, including street
address, city, county, precinct, zip code, and their equivalent geocodes,
except for the initial three digits of a zip code if, according to the
current publicly available data from the Bureau of the Census:
(1) The geographic unit formed by combining all zip codes with the
same three initial digits contains more than 20,000 people; and
(2) The initial three digits of a zip code for all such geographic units
containing 20,000 or fewer people is changed to 000.
(C) All elements of dates (except year) for dates directly related to an
individual, including birth date, admission date, discharge date, date of
death; and all ages over 89 and all elements of dates (including year)
indicative of such age, except that such ages and elements may be
aggregated into a single category of age 90 or older;
(D) Telephone numbers;
(E) Fax numbers;
(F) Electronic mail addresses;
(G) Social security numbers;
(H) Medical record numbers;
(I) Health plan beneficiary numbers;
(J) Account numbers;
(K) Certificate/license numbers;
(L) Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate
numbers;
(M) Device identifiers and serial numbers;
(N) Web Universal Resource Locators (URLs);
(O) Internet Protocol (IP) address numbers;
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 11 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 12 of 17
(P) Biometric identifiers, including finger and voice prints;
(Q) Full face photographic images and any comparable images; and
(R) Any other unique identifying number, characteristic, or code, except
as permitted by paragraph (c) of this section; and
(ii) The covered entity does not have actual knowledge that the information
could be used alone or in combination with other information to identify
an individual who is a subject of the information.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a
covered entity may determine that health information is not individually
identifiable if it contains identifiers described in paragraph (b)(2)(iv),
provided that the dataset contains only the minimum necessary of such
data elements required for a specific AI development or training use case,
is used only for such purposes, and the covered entity complies with
paragraph (b)(2)(ii).
(iv) Identifiers listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(B) and (b)(2)(i)(C) may be
included in a de-identified dataset, in accordance with paragraph
(b)(2)(iii).
The proposal seeks to relieve HIPAA-regulated entities of the burden of relying on expert
determinations to create valuable de-identified datasets for model development and training.
This would allow those entities to dedicate more resources toward efficiently creating and
improving AI-enabled products that can enhance the experience and outcomes of patients and
consumers, while mitigating potential risks associated with the re-identification of individuals in
de-identified datasets. Under the proposal, only the minimum necessary indirect identifiers
would be permitted in a Safe Harbor de-identified dataset, as required by the circumstances of a
particular use case.
3. Use of AI to Process PHI for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations
We recommend clarifying that it is permissible to process the minimum necessary PHI through a
third-party generative AI tool for treatment, payment, or health care operations purposes,
provided that certain conditions are met. In accordance with the HIPAA Privacy Rule at 45
CFR, Subparts A and E, HIPAA requires an individual to authorize uses and disclosures of PHI,
unless an exception applies. Per 45 CFR § 164.502, one such exception allows PHI to be used
and disclosed for treatment, payment, and health care operations. A HIPAA covered entity may
disclose PHI to service providers, known as business associates, for these purposes, provided that
certain contractual requirements are in place and the business associate does not use or disclose
PHI for its own purposes. However, given the ways in which generative AI tools process data
and iteratively improve and learn, it is not always clear to covered entities whether PHI may be
input into generative AI tools, even where the developer of the tool intends to serve as a business
associate and has established safeguards to protect the confidentiality of PHI.
Uncertainty about the permissibility of HIPAA-regulated entities using these tools, which are
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 12 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 13 of 17
routinely leveraged in other sectors, could chill adoption and delay the health care industry’s
realization of their benefits. Thus, it would be helpful to clarify that where PHI is processed
through a generative AI tool for treatment, payment or health care operations, only the minimum
amount of PHI is processed for such purposes, and there is limited risk of the PHI being used or
further disclosed for other purposes, given zero-day retention or similar controls, this qualifies as
a permissible use and disclosure of PHI under HIPAA. Notably, this offers individuals
additional protections in the treatment context, given that the current HIPAA rules do not require
a health care provider’s disclosure for treatment purposes to meet the minimum necessary
standard.
Proposed guidance: HHS should issue an FAQ or other guidance clarifying the permissibility of
these activities to avoid a situation where the lack of regulatory clarity may delay AI adoption,
increase compliance costs, and slow innovation.
4. Patient Rights
We recommend clarifying that an individual’s rights with respect to their PHI are subject to a
reasonableness standard. HIPAA provides individuals with multiple rights regarding their PHI,
as specified at 45 CFR §§ 164.522–164.528, including rights to access, amend, or receive an
accounting of disclosures of their PHI. When an individual exercises these rights, their requests
may cover information dating back as many as six years. Upon receipt of an individual rights
request, a HIPAA-regulated entity must timely review certain of its systems for responsive
records, and action the request as appropriate.
The rules granting these rights were written decades ago, and did not contemplate the
sophistication and complexity of modern AI technologies. It can be difficult and time-
consuming for an organization to validate where data resides within such systems, and to
produce the requested information or make requested changes. This challenge is compounded as
organizations deploy AI systems that interconnect, such as multi-agent systems, and that process
and share data in ways that can be difficult to track and document. Amending the rules to
require reasonable efforts to respond to individual rights requests would recognize the
practicalities organizations face when responding to these requests, while still honoring the
individual rights set out under HIPAA.
Proposed guidance: HHS should issue guidance clarifying that a HIPAA-regulated entity’s
reasonable efforts to action an individual’s request to exercise rights with respect to PHI
processed by an AI system satisfy the entity’s obligations under HIPAA. This can help avoid
applications of HIPAA rules that hinder beneficial AI uses.
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities (e.g., accreditation, certification,
industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in
clinical care?
We believe HHS can most effectively support private sector activities by prioritizing the
development and use of consensus-based standards rather than imposing new regulatory
expectations such as third-party evaluation infrastructures for AI tools. Consensus standards
developed through accredited bodies provide a flexible yet rigorous foundation for testing,
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 13 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 14 of 17
accreditation, and certification activities without unnecessarily exposing proprietary methods or
increasing compliance costs. Such standards can guide voluntary industry-driven testing, support
credentialing efforts, and foster interoperability in a way that aligns with private sector
innovation imperatives and real-world needs.
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care organizations
have the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the primary
administrative hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
A. Regulation of AI-Enabled Medical Devices
Maintaining the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as the sole federal regulator of
medical devices is essential to protecting patients while supporting continued innovation. FDA
has decades of experience overseeing medical devices through a risk-based, lifecycle approach
that already accounts for software, machine learning, and AI-enabled technologies. Creating
additional or parallel regulatory requirements at other federal agencies would be duplicative,
confusing, and inefficient; increasing compliance burden for industry and resource strain for
regulators without improving safety. Fragmented oversight risks inconsistent standards, delayed
patient access to beneficial technologies, and uncertainty for manufacturers and healthcare
providers. Policymakers should reinforce FDA’s primary authority over medical devices and
ensure that cross-agency AI initiatives defer to FDA where medical devices are concerned, rather
than introducing new regulatory layers that undermine an established, effective framework.
B. American Medical Association (AMA) Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) Hurdles
The CPT code set, maintained under the authority of the AMA, is the de facto language for
reporting medical services and procedures across the U.S. healthcare system. Payers—including
Medicare, Medicaid, and commercial insurers—and providers rely on CPT codes to describe the
procedure performed, measure utilization, and set payment rates. Because CPT serves as the
backbone for billing, clinical documentation, reimbursement, health information exchange, and
utilization analysis, having an accurate and appropriate CPT code is often a prerequisite for
widespread adoption of any medical service or technology, especially for new technologies that
don’t resemble traditional clinician-performed procedures.
AI and digital health technologies face unique hurdles in obtaining CPT codes that appropriately
reflect the technology itself and/or the resources required for the accompanying service.
Category III codes, where those early AI tools that have been able to obtain a CPT code have
landed, are often considered “experimental and investigational” by payers and therefore either
not reimbursed or reimbursed at rates far below the actual cost of the procedure and technology.
Transitioning from a Category III code to a Category I code often requires demonstrating
“widespread clinical use” and presenting strong clinical evidence, which can take years to
develop even after FDA market authorization. These limitations result in codes that often lag
behind real-world innovation, which slows commercial adoption of these technologies, limits
clinician use, and adversely affects investment in next-generation technologies based on a lack of
clear reimbursement pathways.
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 14 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 15 of 17
Recently, the AMA’s Digital Medicine Coding Committee (DMCC) proposed a potential new
coding framework, called “Clinically Meaningful Algorithmic Analyses” (CMAA) defined as “is
a mechanism to codify algorithmic analysis of clinically relevant patient data (e.g., biophysical
signals, imaging data, lab results) to produce clinically meaningful output or conclusions that
impact patient care.”11 While we appreciate AMA’s continued engagement with industry on this
proposal, we remain concerned about the impact of creating a differentiated code set for
algorithmic analyses without a defined pathway to coverage and payment. Shoehorning AI
services into this proposed CMAA code set without a clear payment pathway could stifle
innovation and investment in this space. Algorithm-only services that would potentially fall
under the CMAA code set as drafted exist in other sections of CPT and have received coverage
and payment under the Physician Fee Schedule (PFS), Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment
System (OPPS), or Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS). Creation of new code set without
a defined pathway to coverage and payment not only jeopardizes new technologies but risks
disrupting coverage and payment for existing services. As AMA continues conversations around
a potential CMAA code set, we strongly urge CMS to take a more active role in ongoing
conversations around coding for AI and digital health technology-enabled procedures, and to
consider use of its own code creation authorities where appropriate to ensure timely
reimbursement for these technologies.
8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and
accelerate the development of AI for clinical care?
We see interoperability as critical for unlocking the full potential of AI in clinical settings.
Enhanced interoperability across health systems and platforms would reduce data fragmentation
and enable richer, more representative datasets for training and validating AI models.
Specifically, standardization of clinical data formats and exchange protocols that preserving
patient privacy protections would accelerate research and model development by making it easier
to aggregate and harmonize data across diverse sources.
Preserving key clinical elements in de-identified datasets (such as age, gender, diagnoses, and
outcomes) while maintaining privacy safeguards would expand the utility of data for AI research
without compromising confidentiality. In addition, interoperability efforts grounded in consensus
standards can facilitate benchmarking of model performance, support comparative evaluations
across systems, and ultimately broaden market opportunities by enabling tools to perform
reliably in varied care environments.
10. Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate the
adoption of AI as part of clinical care?
We believe HHS should prioritize research that supports the development of international
consensus standards and regulatory science tools that promote regulatory efficiency and the
development of trustworthy and effective AI-enabled devices.
11 American Medical Association. CPT® workgroups and committees. American Medical Association. Updated
February 2, 2026. https://www.ama-assn.org/about/cpt-editorial-panel/cpt-workgroups-and-committees
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 15 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 16 of 17
a. Are there published findings about the impact of adopted AI tools and their use clinical
care?
FDA has authorized over 1,300 AI-enabled medical devices that leverage the transformative
power of AI to improve the patient experience and enable clinicians to better understand
diseases, achieve faster, more accurate diagnostic results, and determine appropriate treatment
pathways. Illustrative examples of how patients and clinicians benefit from incorporating AI-
enabled technologies into clinical care are highlighted in AdvaMed’s AI Policy Roadmap12 and
Advancing Patient Care: AI in Medical Devices document13. We additionally offer the following
specific examples of AI-enabled devices with accompanying resources that quantify the impact
and benefits of these devices when used in clinical care:
• Medtronic’s GI Genius™ intelligent endoscopy module is a computer-aided detection
system that uses AI to identify pre-cancerous and cancerous polyps in real-time during
colonoscopies, assisting physicians in reducing the rates of missed polyps. There are over
30 publications, including 8 randomized controlled trials (RCTs), that demonstrate the
clinical impact of the GI Genius™ module.14
• Stryker’s Triton device incorporates an AI tool designed for estimating surgical blood
loss, most commonly applied in obstetric procedures. This technology provides a real-
time, quantitative method to estimate blood loss during surgery, offering advancement
over traditional gravimetric and visual assessment methods. Rapid and accurate
estimation of blood loss can enable the clinical care team to make more informed and
timely decisions regarding postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) management and treatment
protocols. Published studies demonstrate that implementation of the quantitative blood
loss estimation can improve accuracy of blood loss estimation compared to gravimetric
and visual techniques.15,16 Reported clinical outcomes include an increase in the detection
12 AdvaMed’s AI Policy Roadmap (2025): https://www.advamed.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/AI-Policy-
Roadmap.pdf
13 AdvaMed’s Advancing Patient Care: AI in Medical Devices document (2025): https://www.advamed.org/wp-
content/uploads/2026/02/Advancing-Patient-Care-AI-in-Medical-Devices.pdf
14 https://www.medtronic.com/content/dam/medtronic-wide/public/united-states/products/digestive-
gastrointestinal/gastrointestinal-artificial-intelligence/gi-genius-intelligent-endoscopy-module-infographic-info-
sheet.pdf
15 Doctorvaladan SV, Jelks AT, Hsieh EW, Thurer RL, Zakowski MI, Lagrew DC. Accuracy of Blood Loss
Measurement during Cesarean Delivery. AJP Rep. 2017 Apr;7(2):e93-e100. doi: 10.1055/s-0037-1601382.
16 Rubenstein AF, Block M, Zamudio S, Douglas C, Sledge S, Tully G, Thurer RL. Accurate Assessment of Blood
Loss during Cesarean Delivery Improves Estimation of Postoperative Hemoglobin. Am J Perinatol. 2019
Mar;36(4):434-439. doi: 10.1055/s-0038-1669397.
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 16 ::

ASTP/ONC RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of AI as Part of Clinical Care
February 23, 2026
Page 17 of 17
rate of PPH after cesarean sections compared to use of visual blood loss estimation,17,18
as well as possible reduction in transfusion dose and shorter length of stay.13
As the U.S. Government seeks to ensure AI-enabled products across healthcare are used safely,
we appreciate the opportunity to provide feedback on regulatory priorities and recommendations
impacting medical technologies. AdvaMed member companies take seriously the trust patients
place in them and have consistently acted to identify best practices balancing innovation with
patient protections. Thank you for the opportunity to submit these comments. Please consider
AdvaMed as a resource while you continue to consider regulations related to AI and medical
devices.
Thank you for your consideration of AdvaMed’s comments. Please do not hesitate to contact us
with any questions using the contact information below.
Sincerely,
Terry Chang, M.D., Esq.
Vice President, Assistant General Council
Director, Medical & Legal Affairs
AdvaMed
tchang@advamed.org
Geeta Pamidimukkala, MS
Vice President, Technology & Regulatory Affairs
AdvaMed
gpamidimukkala@advamed.org
Zach Hornberger
Senior Director, Digital Health & Imaging Technology
AdvaMed
zhornberger@advamed.org
Kirsten Tullia, JD, MPH
Senior Vice President, Payment & Health Care Delivery Policy
Head of Research
AdvaMed
ktullia@advamed.org
17 Rubenstein AF, Zamudio S, Al-Khan A, Douglas C, Sledge S, Tully G, Thurer RL. Clinical Experience with the
Implementation of Accurate Measurement of Blood Loss during Cesarean Delivery: Influences on Hemorrhage
Recognition and Allogeneic Transfusion. Am J Perinatol. 2018 Jun;35(7):655-659. doi: 10.1055/s-0037-1613675.
18 Katz D, Wang R, O'Neil L, Gerber C, Lankford A, Rogers T, Gal J, Sandler R, Beilin Y. The association between
the introduction of quantitative assessment of postpartum blood loss and institutional changes in clinical practice: an
observational study. Int J Obstet Anesth. 2020 May;42:4-10. doi: 10.1016/j.ijoa.2019.05.006.
advamed.org :: @AdvaMedUpdate :: AdvaMed 17 ::