Docusign Envelope ID: A6E7EBF5-CE41-4B15-9967-97544C04DE80
Published Document: 2025-08701 (90 FR 21034)
File code: CMS-0042-NC
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services,
Attention: CMS-0042-NC, P.O. Box 8013, Baltimore, MD 21244-8013.
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Verily welcomes the opportunity to provide comments on the Health Technology Ecosystem
Request for Information. Digital health technologies have a fundamental role to play in
modernizing the health data ecosystem and facilitating a transition from reactively managing
disease to proactively preventing illness and chronic conditions. The priorities established by the
Administration, including the Executive Orders on Artificial Intelligence (AI) leadership, 1 the
establishment of the Make America Healthy Again Commission, 2 and the recent strategic
framework issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Innovation Center 3
demonstrate the Administration’s commitment to fostering responsible technological
advancement and innovation in healthcare delivery. We believe forthcoming policy can and
should build on the progress made by stakeholders implementing the 21st Century Cures Act
(P.L. 114-255) to enhance access to and exchange of data, accelerate precision and
preventative care, and improve health outcomes.
Verily is an Alphabet data platform and AI company that is purpose-built for precision health. We
combine deep clinical, regulatory, and technology expertise to provide our customers with
patient-centric solutions that make healthcare more personal and precise. Verily solutions are
designed to make healthcare data AI-ready and fit for purpose across care, research, and public
health. Our extensive experience building innovative technology platforms for data ingestion,
curation, and analysis, alongside our commitment to generating high-quality, regulatory-grade
real-world data (RWD), positions us to offer valuable perspectives on advancing the collection,
standardization, and regulatory acceptance of evidence derived from real-world sources.
In our response, we highlight three key policy objectives that are essential for advancing the
digital health ecosystem. These include:
1) Building a connected technology ecosystem that empowers patients and enables
precision care, including preventative care, through multimodal data exchange
2) Incentivizing use of digital technology for precise outcomes that enable personalized
health and value-based care
3) Partnering on an AI regulatory framework for real-world monitoring & payment models
1 https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/removing-barriers-to-american-leadership-in-artificial-intelligence/
2 https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/establishing-the-presidents-make-america-healthy-again-commission/
3 https://www.cms.gov/priorities/innovation/about/strategic-direction
Verily Comments for 1
CMS-0042-NC

Docusign Envelope ID: A6E7EBF5-CE41-4B15-9967-97544C04DE80
We believe these areas align with recent Administration initiatives at CMS and the Assistant
Secretary for Health Technology/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology (ASTP/ONC) and will be important enablers for advancing the health technology
ecosystem. For clarity and brevity, we have structured our comments through a discussion of
these specific policy areas, which broadly align with questions within the RFI.
Building a Connected Health Technology Ecosystem that Empowers Patients and
Enables Precision Care, including Preventative Care, through Multimodal Data Exchange
While the healthcare sector generates more than 30% of global data annually, only 2% is
retained for the following year and only 3% of data generated at hospitals is used to make
evidence-based care decisions. 4 Access to electronic health records (EHRs), including through
established Health Information Exchanges (HIEs), continues to be a pain point. Additionally,
health data generated outside of the traditional care delivery system, such as data from
wearables, patient-reported outcomes, symptom logs, genomic studies, and clinical trials is
rarely integrated with EHR data. The aggregation and linkage of these multimodal data sources
can accelerate progress toward the type of integrated care necessary for a modernized and
patient-centered healthcare system.
Advancing the digital ecosystem necessitates an advanced data platform capable of collecting,
aggregating, curating, analyzing, and exchanging health data derived from routine care, clinical
research, and broader health-related experiences. The Fast Healthcare Interoperability
Resources (FHIR) standard will be critical to achieve this aim, as it provides the semantic and
technical foundation needed for diverse data exchange. It is imperative to continue incentivizing
the widespread adoption of the FHIR standard, and we urge the Administration to continue
efforts aimed at incorporating FHIR into its strategic planning. The Draft Federal FHIR Action
Plan and Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) initiative overseen
by ASTP/ONC, and Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) recent Notice for public feedback on
the use of FHIR in regulatory submissions for drug and biologic products 5 are encouraging
policy developments.
We also recommend that CMS and ASTP/ONC continue to support full-spectrum FHIR
capability in certified EHRs, as these interfaces will be foundational to the health technology
ecosystem. FHIR has tremendous potential to standardize data measurement and quality
reporting, which can empower patients to make informed decisions about where they seek care.
The Bulk FHIR API, in particular, is invaluable for population health and quality reporting use
cases, enabling health systems to efficiently extract cohorts of data for registries or in-depth
4 https://www.deloitte.com/be/en/Industries/health-care/research/health-data.html
5 https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/04/23/2025-06967/exploration-of-health-level-seven-fast-healthcare-interoperabilit
y-resources-for-use-in-study-data
Verily Comments for 2
CMS-0042-NC

Docusign Envelope ID: A6E7EBF5-CE41-4B15-9967-97544C04DE80
analytics to improve care. However, many providers have not yet enabled this critical
functionality. To streamline data exchange processes, a centralized, publicly accessible
directory, ideally one that lists participating healthcare organizations and their requirements for
data exchange, could be developed by building upon existing work to establish an endpoint
FHIR Directory. 6
The continued advancement of HIEs is also needed with a deliberate focus on improving the
necessary governance for exchanging health data. Key progress has been made with HIEs,
evidenced by ONC’s initial effort through an Advanced Notice of Rulemaking to develop a
nationwide governance mechanism for trusted exchange in 2012, the longstanding roles of
Carequality and CommonWell, and provisions in the 21st Century Cures Act that subsequently
established TEFCA. 7 , 8
To further advance the goals of TEFCA, CMS and ASTP/ONC should collaborate more closely
to incentivize the accessibility of high quality data as part of a seamless data exchange
framework. The advantages TEFCA offers are its structure that provides on-ramps to query and
retrieve records from any other participant in the network, and the required response mandate
for certain exchange use cases. However, improvements are needed to continue scaling the
use of the TEFCA data infrastructure.
Lessons learned from the groundbreaking Meaningful Use program could inform opportunities
to ensure interoperability by building transparency into governance requirements of information
systems. CMS and ASTP could provide guidance to stakeholders implementing TEFCA
regarding how requests should be sent as well as how adjudicators of such requests should
respond. Further standardizing this communication, including guidance around how to provide
sufficient justification and clear explanations of the intended use(s) of the data, and conversely,
the interpretation of such requests, will drive predictability and consistency in the network and
foster appropriate information sharing.
Enabling patients to access their health data in a single place is one of the most important steps
toward empowering individuals to take an active role in their health. While technically feasible in
some instances, it remains challenging for patients to access their health data. For example,
provider portals may not support data types that should be available via current APIs. There are
also usability barriers, including multiple logins and confusing interfaces. This is an area that
requires practical solutions, and we support CMS’ planned efforts to implement a modern
6 https://sequoiaproject.org/SequoiaProjectHealthcareDirectoryImplementationGuide/output/Endpoint-fhir-endpoint.html
7 https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2012-05-15/pdf/2012-11775.pdf
8 https://rce.sequoiaproject.org/common-agreement/
Verily Comments for 3
CMS-0042-NC

Docusign Envelope ID: A6E7EBF5-CE41-4B15-9967-97544C04DE80
identity verification system for Medicare and other needed solutions to reduce friction with data
exchanges. 9
Even if a patient is able to access their aggregated health data, it may be challenging to obtain
useful insights from large volumes of longitudinal health data. We believe it is important for
patients to have support interpreting their data and empowering them to achieve their health
goals. Ultimately, health data infrastructure is the linchpin to achieve efficient data exchange,
aggregation, and informed use of patient data. The governance of TEFCA, including more
consistent use of the FHIR standard, could play an important and leading role to this end, and
we encourage CMS and ASTP/ONC to continue TEFCA’s development.
Incentivizing Use of Digital Technology for Precise Outcomes that Enable Personalized
Health and Value-based Care
CMS and ASTP/ONC should support novel ways to use multimodal, real-world health data in
advancing value-based payment structures that incentivize personalized, preventative health.
The clinical and economic benefits of preventative health are clear, and research suggests that
individuals are more likely to engage in preventative health measures when recommendations
are personalized rather than generic. 1 0 , 1 1 However, enabling truly personalized health at scale
requires the use of multimodal, longitudinal health data that provides a holistic view of an
individual’s health. Verily believes that capturing and effectively leveraging high quality health
data to ascertain better outcomes is a prerequisite for scalable preventative health efforts.
Real-world data collected outside of traditional health encounters like home settings can be
combined with EHR data to ascertain more precise health outcomes. This type of RWD may
include data elements collected from remote monitoring devices, virtual and asynchronous
interactions with clinicians that occur between traditional visits, and directly from patients
through surveys and symptom logs. Data elements that give a more comprehensive picture of
patient health can then be translated into specific preventative health recommendations for
patients and into clinical outcomes as part of quality measures for value-based care models.
For example, in diabetes, “time in range” (TIR) measured via continuous glucose monitor (CGM)
is arguably a better measure of blood glucose control than the current standard for A1c. If
widespread CGM use were enabled through broad reimbursement and over-the-counter
9 https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-building-foundational-infrastructure-digital-healthcare-ecosystem
10 Taksler GB, Beth Mercer M, Fagerlin A, Rothberg MB. Assessing Patient Interest in Individualized Preventive Care
Recommendations. MDM Policy Pract. 2019 May 27;4(1):2381468319850803. doi: 10.1177/2381468319850803.
11 Taksler GB, Hu B, DeGrandis F, et al. Effect of Individualized Preventive Care Recommendations vs Usual Care on Patient
Interest and Use of Recommendations: A Pilot Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA Netw Open. 2021;4(11):e2131455.
doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.31455.
Verily Comments for 4
CMS-0042-NC

Docusign Envelope ID: A6E7EBF5-CE41-4B15-9967-97544C04DE80
availability (including for prediabetes), and CGM device data was systematically integrated into
medical records, then TIR could be used to better personalize diabetes-related care and to
replace A1c as the clinical outcome for diabetes control in value-based care structures.
Incorporating TIR into quality measures, particularly measures linked to payment models, would
incentivize broad adoption of TIR in clinical practice, improving both the clinical relevance of
data collected and the care patients receive.
Policies that support adoption of digital health technologies (DHTs) are the key to enabling
personalized, outcomes-based preventative health at scale. Virtual care management platforms,
remote monitoring devices, and mobile applications that integrate multimodal health data, are
the vehicles for capturing health data outside of the traditional health system. Additionally, the
use of advanced DHTs can expand access to primary care in rural and under-resourced
practices. Yet, many of these tools remain underutilized. 1 2 CMS could foster adoption by directly
integrating the use of DHTs into quality measurement (e.g., HEDIS, Star ratings) and incentive
payment programs (e.g., MIPs). The incorporation of DHTs into measures used for value-based
payment structures would encourage providers to adopt solutions that integrate RWD and
support their patients in utilizing devices and mobile apps for between visit data collection.
CMS and ASTP/ONC could also consider opportunities for piloting the use of multimodal RWD
to support innovative technology product development, alternative payment mechanisms, and
general testing on platforms capable of ingesting, linking, and exchanging data from EHRs,
devices, patient-reported outcomes, and clinical research. For example, CMS could provide
access to coverage data, pricing, and quality metrics via FHIR APIs for selected technology
developers to ingest into multimodal data platforms and incorporate into patient-facing electronic
applications. This would allow advanced data platforms to combine behavioral, social, and
device data collected from patients with medical, pharmacy and insurance data to generate
highly personalized guided workflows and more precise outcome measurement.
Notable progress has been made towards innovative uses of RWD. However, the value of these
data sources can be limited by inconsistent practices involving data capture, curation,
exchange, linkages, and validation. Improving processes for how RWD are captured and
curated will tremendously benefit the overall utility of this ecosystem. ASTP/ONC’s USCDI
initiative remains a potentially untapped, yet powerful, tool for establishing normative data
practices. We support the continued advancement of USCDI, and urge CMS and ASTP/ONC to
support the development of robust and reliable data for a variety of stakeholder needs to
improve care delivery. By enacting policies that reimburse more interoperable, more
personalized, and more relevant outcome measures, value-based payment models can
simultaneously incentivize better RWD and better care.
12 https://www.jdpower.com/business/press-releases/2025-us-commercial-member-health-plan-study
Verily Comments for 5
CMS-0042-NC

Docusign Envelope ID: A6E7EBF5-CE41-4B15-9967-97544C04DE80
Partnering on an AI Regulatory Framework for Real-World Monitoring & Payment Models
CMS and ASTP/ONC’s support of AI-enabled medical product innovation is one of the most
critical opportunities to scale the digital technology ecosystem and empower patients. Verily
believes that appropriate, safe and effective development and deployment of AI has enormous
potential to prevent and better manage disease, and accordingly, we are building technologies
that can effectively integrate multimodal health data sources. AI is already transforming how
care is delivered, and as AI continues to evolve, the importance of a transparent and predictable
regulatory framework for innovation, evaluation, real-world monitoring, and payment design will
only grow.
An effective regulatory framework for AI, aligned with current advancements, should be
developed in partnership between CMS, the FDA, and other relevant agencies and
stakeholders. FDA has issued guidance documents addressing the safety and efficacy of
AI-enabled medical devices, referred to as SaMD, and shared its initial thinking on the use of AI
in regulatory decision making for drug and biologic products. 13 However, much uncertainty
remains, specifically regarding how modifications and updates to deployed AI-enabled medical
products in the post market will be monitored and reimbursed without stifling innovation or
compromising patient safety. Because the scope of clinical AI deployments may span beyond
conventional medical technologies and SaMD, a broader framework may be needed to allow for
more predictable and effective real-world performance monitoring guidelines for deployed
AI-enabled medical products.
A collaboratively developed real-world monitoring framework could be multi-purposed. It can
ensure that appropriate evidence is generated for FDA post market surveillance when required,
and provides a structure in which CMS can align novel payment models. Further, it could do so
in ways that finally provide consumers access to their own data, enabling them to manage their
own health more proactively, and thereby realizing the promise the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act made in 1996 (albeit when medical records were largely hard copy) to
give patients meaningful access to their own health records.
In the context of regulatory approval, we suggest that the approach to real-world monitoring for
deployed AI-enabled medical products be titrated to the level of risk exposed to the patient or
consumer, building on how risk is classified for SaMD. 14 This could mean that a light regulatory
touch, if necessary, is acceptable for lower-risk AI-enabled products, whereas higher-risk
AI-enabled products might require more continuous and comprehensive data capture,
mandatory reporting, or an expert in the loop to ensure ongoing safety and effectiveness. Still,
the current regulatory framework may not be adequate to support the range of AI deployments
13 www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/artificial-intelligence-and-machine-learning-software-medical-device
14 https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/global-approach-software-medical-device
Verily Comments for 6
CMS-0042-NC

Docusign Envelope ID: A6E7EBF5-CE41-4B15-9967-97544C04DE80
coming to the market including those oriented towards prevention, wellness, and healthy
lifestyle. Given this category of AI-enabled medical products may not fit within FDA’s existing
regulatory authorities, it could represent an area where a broad and refined regulatory
framework is needed to ensure patient safety.
Payment models and reimbursement methodologies could align with a risk-based regulatory
approach by incentivizing adoption of AI-enabled medical products that are appropriately
monitored according to their classified product risk level. Harmonization of real-world
performance monitoring across regulatory approval requirements and payment structures could
not only help regulators keep pace with the rapid speed of innovation, but could also improve
efficiencies when implementing statutorily-defined authorities across approval and payment.
Additionally, this harmonization would provide more predictability and instill greater confidence
so that AI technology developers continue to invest and innovate in the health sector.
In summary, FDA should consider a commensurate risk-based framework for postmarketing
surveillance of safety and effectiveness for deployed AI-enabled medical products, and CMS
could leverage shared insights from surveillance activities to inform and predictably implement
coverage determinations or novel payment structures for AI-enabled medical products perhaps
with support and input from diverse stakeholder discussions. Fundamentally, a unified,
multi-stakeholder approach to innovation, performance evaluation and ongoing safety
monitoring will be essential for instilling patient and provider trust in these transformative AI
technologies - a critical step toward advancing the healthcare technology ecosystem.
Closing
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these timely and critical topics. We applaud the
Administration's commitment to ensuring accessible, high-quality care for all Americans, and its
focus on addressing the root causes of diseases rather than just treating symptoms. We believe
the envisioned health technology ecosystem will be key to achieving these goals and
transforming healthcare nationwide. We look forward to partnering with the Administration and
other stakeholders to develop and implement innovative technological solutions that make this
vision a reality.
Sincerely,
Vindell Washington, MD
Chief Clinical Officer
Verily Comments for 7
CMS-0042-NC