February 23, 2026
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Department of Health and Human Services National Coordinator for Health Information
200 Independence Ave. Southwest Technology
Washington, District of Columbia 20201 Department of Health and Human Services
330 C Street Southwest, 7th Floor
Washington, District of Columbia 20024
Dear Secretary Kennedy and Assistant Secretary Keane:
We represent a diverse coalition of stakeholders that span the healthcare and technology sectors, all of
whom support the necessary expanded use of digital and connected health technologies. A growing
evidence base continues to demonstrate that the responsible use of safe and effective digital health
solutions produces better patient outcomes, reduces costs, augments population health management, and
improves the healthcare workforce experience.1 Digital health tools, increasingly powered by artificial
intelligence (AI), leverage patient-generated health data (PGHD) and include cloud-enabled solutions, to
reduce administrative burden, support medical and clinical decision-making, and chronic and acute care
management. The use of these tools is also vital in supporting unserved and underserved populations’
access to prevention, diagnosis, and treatment for both acute and chronic conditions.
Leveraging the tremendous potential of AI is critical to accomplishing the Administration’s goals of
empowering the American people with personalized solutions; equipping healthcare providers with better
and timely data about the patients they serve and improving health outcomes; and shifting the paradigm
for health care to a system that fosters prevention, wellness, and chronic disease management. Many AI
use cases, ranging from solving administrative/backend efficiencies to supportive clinical decisions, have
already demonstrated their capacity to advance the Quadruple Aim.
We are encouraged to see the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) continue to investigate
these goals, most recently with its request for information regarding accelerating the adoption of artificial
intelligence as part of clinical care.2 HHS is well-positioned to leverage its existing authority to ensure
that its policies propel the American healthcare system forward through its safe, effective, and responsible
uptake of AI. We encourage you to set policy aligned with the following principles:
● A Shared Responsibility for Quality and Efficacy: Across HHS, adopt a risk-based approach
to healthcare AI that tailors risk mitigation to the potential harms of intended and expected uses.
Responsibility for managing risks should be appropriately shared among developers, vendors, and
providers based on their knowledge of, and ability to address, those risks in alignment with
leading standards such as ISO/IEC 42001.3 HHS should prevent the improper or unfair shifting of
1 Bodenheimer, T., & Sinsky, C. (2014). "From Triple to Quadruple Aim: Care of the Patient Requires Care of the
Provider." Annals of Family Medicine, 12(6), 573-576.
2 https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/12/23/2025-23641/request-for-information-accelerating-the-
adoption-and-use-of-artificial-intelligence-as-part-of
3 https://www.iso.org/standard/42001
1

liability to those who rely on AI technologies in good faith to care for patients so as to encourage
innovation and adoption without introducing new risks for critical health AI value chains.
● Transparency and Explainability: In alignment with existing standards and best practices for
making appropriate information public, provide clear, risk-based communications that inform all
healthcare stakeholders about relevant data requirements, intended uses, limitations, target
populations, bias mitigation, and applications of AI tools. These communications should disclose
sufficient detail to help providers assess when a tool is appropriate for individual patients, clarify
whether the tool augments or automates clinical workflows, and specify compliance with all
applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Transparency is a prerequisite for AI adoption.
● Access and Affordability: Prioritize measures that will ensure digital health technologies and AI
systems in health care are accessible and affordable across research, health administration and
operations, population health, practice delivery improvement, and direct clinical care. Payment
and incentive policies must be in place to invest in building health AI infrastructure; preparing
personnel and training; and appropriately incenting the responsible uptake and consistent use of
AI tools demonstrated to advance the Quadruple Aim. Notably, CMS should modernize the way
AI software is categorized and supported, including AI enabled non-medical device technologies,
and provide support in Medicare for AI tools to improve Medicare beneficiaries’ experience and
care (as well as working with states to achieve a harmonized expansion of similar support for AI
in Medicaid). Further, CMS should make overdue modernizations to key disease prevention
programs (e.g., diabetes prevention) and support preventative healthcare by fully leveraging
digital health technologies tools, such as patient-facing wearables and AI-enabled services. AI
can play a central role in the transition to value-based care by providing essential population
health tools and providing enhanced scalability and patient support.
● Interoperability: Ease data access and improve interoperability, while protecting data privacy
and security, to foster cooperation, trust, and openness among patients, providers, health AI
technology developers, and researchers. A truly interoperable healthcare system is one that
enables and engages patients across multiple privacy-preserving platforms using open APIs,
enabling the secure integration of patient-generated health data into electronic health records.
Interoperability rules under the 21st Century Cures Act should enable clinicians’ access to
medical records and patients to get their data and provide it to other organizations, including for
research. The success of AI tools for precision medicine, population health, and clinical decision
support, all of which are key tools in addressing chronic diseases, depends on accessible and
interoperable data.
● Ethics: Given the longstanding, deeply rooted, and well-developed body of medical and
biomedical ethics, it will be critical to preserve existing and emerging ethical norms developed by
providers and healthcare professional organizations for broader adherence by technologists,
innovators, computer scientists, and those who use such systems. From design, development,
implementation, and to use, healthcare AI tools should reflect the practical, ethical, and
operational realities of patient care.
● Workforce: The United States faces a stark, and growing, healthcare workforce shortage.
Successful creation and deployment of AI-enabled technologies which help care providers
streamline tasks and meet the needs of their patients will be an essential part of addressing this
shortage. Policies should support user education and workforce development through AI
upskilling and strengthen the clinician-patient relationship.
● Education: Support educational efforts to increase AI literacy in healthcare, highlight successful
AI applications, and promote stakeholder engagement to keep policies responsive to new
opportunities and challenges. Education should be developed by healthcare professional
organizations in partnership with AI developers. Educating the public about how AI is used in
2

their care increases transparency, fosters trust, and enables patients to make informed decisions
about their health.
● Collaboration: We strongly encourage you to leverage the public-private partnership framework
to collaborate with providers, patients, industry, research institutions, and government agencies to
advance the above and to more broadly drive safe and effective innovation in healthcare AI.
We appreciate your consideration of our input at this critical time for the American healthcare system and
the countless Americans that depend on it. We stand ready to assist you further in any way that we can.
Sincerely,
Alliance Tele-Med, LLC EmPowerYu
American Health Information Management Epic Reach, LLC
Association (AHIMA)
Howie Robotics
American Osteopathic Association
Life365, Inc.
Avella Physical Therapy Group
MiCare Path
Axeleos, Inc., Makers of Sentraeus360
Nova Insights Corp
College of Healthcare Information
Management Executives (CHIME) Oncoustics
Connected Health Initiative Rimidi
Dogtown Media UnaliWear, Inc.
CC: Dr. Mehmet Oz, Administrator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Dr. Marty Makary, Commissioner of Food and Drugs, U.S. Food and Drug Administration
Dr. Jay Bhattacharya, Director, National Institutes of Health
Paula M. Stannard, Director, Office for Civil Rights
Christi Grimm, Inspector General, Office of Inspector General
Amy Gleason, Administrator, United States DOGE Service
3