 1 June 12, 2025 The Honorable Mehmet Oz Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services RE: Request for information; E2ective and responsible adoption of technology can empower patients to make better decisions for their health and well-being. Dear Administrator Oz, Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments on the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC). The Health and Reentry Project (HARP) strongly supports CMS’ goal of a health care ecosystem, as described in the RFI, “in which patients can view, manage, utilize, and share their health information through digital applications…[to] ultimately expand access to personalized health guidance for patients to improve prevention and chronic disease management. ” The Health and Reentry Project (HARP) was founded in 2022 with a mission to improve the health and safety of people and communities. Through education and analysis, HARP strengthens policies to expand access to health care for people directly impacted by the justice system. HARP also advances implementation to help health and reentry policies become a reality that improves people’s lives. HARP’s work brings together diverse stakeholders across health care and criminal justice. The opportunity inherent in CMS’ goal of advancing health technology solutions is particularly large for the speciﬁc population on which HARP focuses: individuals who are returning to their communities following periods of incarceration. The current system of care for people as they are released from jail and prison is fragmented, ine_icient and wasteful. People routinely fall into gaps that lead to excessive spending on emergency rooms, increased recidivism, rearrest and reincarceration, and high rates of overdose deaths. E_orts to improve continuity of care at reentry, including through technological solutions, focus on reducing ine_iciency in current systems, supporting public safety and saving costs, while advancing prevention and chronic disease management. 
 2 Our speciﬁc comments follow and describe the opportunities and particular needs facing the reentering population, as well as several existing barriers facing practitioners and individuals as systems are developed to advance interoperability across health and criminal justice. Our comments are informed by our engagement directly with criminal justice system leaders and practitioners from state and local corrections, probation, parole, and other law enforcement agencies and systems, as well as with health system leaders, including state, local, and federal health o_icials, health care providers and insurers, advocates, community organizations and people who are directly impacted by the justice system. HARP’s experience strongly suggests that addressing interoperability, improving data sharing, and strengthening the ability of consumers and providers to view, share and use health care data will reduce fragmentation, waste and ine_iciency and improve health outcomes. Our comments are applicable to Medicare beneﬁciaries, consistent with the focus of the RFI and a key population since an increasing proportion of incarcerated individuals are older adults and their health needs are signiﬁcant and costly1. However, our comments are also applicable to individuals covered by other CMS programs, especially Medicaid, and are informed largely by our work with states, counties and organizations related to implementation of Medicaid reentry waivers. Bridging systems requires dynamic, consumer-facing technology As a general matter, neither Medicare nor Medicaid covers services while a beneﬁciary is incarcerated. However, beginning during the ﬁrst Trump administration, CMS and federal partners have undertaken targeted e_orts to better connect individuals to care upon release. These e_orts, which have historically been supported by both health and public safety stakeholders, arose from a recognition that the current system of care for people as they are released from jail and prison was ine_icient and ine_ective for both individuals and taxpayers, with negative consequences for health and safety. The ﬁrst federal initiative to use Medicaid to improve continuity of care at reentry was signed into law by President Trump in 2018, as part of the SUPPORT Act. This continued with recommendations in the 2020 report of the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice, which recommended removing policies that barred Medicaid from covering services in jails. More recently, states have focused on implementing continuity of care changes for youth who are returning to communities, and Medicare has updated its deﬁnition of “in custody” to improve continuity of care for Medicare beneﬁciaries in the community. 1 https://bjs.ojp.gov/document/p22st.pdf 
 3 Improving health and safety through continuity of care at release involves interconnected challenges, including: • bridging systems designed for di_erent purposes (i.e., providing health care and ensuring public safety); • maintaining a workforce both “behind the wall” and in the community ready to provide continuity of care between settings; and • ensuring program integrity and accountability in di_erent settings that have di_erent oversight structures. The thread that connects solutions to each of these challenges is technology. To successfully ensure that both the health and justice systems can work seamlessly to meet peoples’ health needs while ensuring security and safety are prioritized, health data systems must be interoperable across settings (including correctional settings), transparent and accessible to patients and providers (with due consideration to patient privacy needs), and strategically ﬁnanced to maximize e2iciency. Underlying challenges and the importance of data sharing Historically, information and data about the health care provided to a person during a period of incarceration has been extremely siloed from information about the health care that person received in the community, both before and after release. Correctional health is not typically provided using the same “billing and claiming” methodology that characterizes most of the public and private health care system in the community. This divide has led to a breakdown of continuity that has had major negative consequences for both individual health and public safety. For example, a correctional facility may not know at the time of booking that a person is in active treatment for a substance use disorder or a chronic disease. Similarly, a community provider may experience his or her patient “disappearing” from regular contact for a period of months or years, only to discover at a later date that the patient has been incarcerated. Too often, both the correctional and community health systems rely on a patient’s own recollection of his or her medical treatment to achieve any continuity of care. Yet data systems largely exist in both systems that capture that information—they just don’t connect to one another. Data sharing is essential to continuity and should ideally cover three categories of information: insurance eligibility, enrollment and coverage (including events such as expected release dates which impact coverage status), clinical information about services provided in the community and during a correctional stay, and billing and 
 4 reimbursement information to ensure services are delivered e_iciently, reimbursed without overlap, and billed to the appropriate payer. Privacy concerns and di_ering regulatory frameworks for di_erent types of health information can also create confusion about which data can be shared with which partners, creating a barrier to e_ective data sharing across corrections and community health. This can, however, be navigated with the right coordination and consent from both individuals and state/local systems. Improved health data technology could streamline the process not only of sharing data, but of obtaining the necessary informed consent in a way that allows for real-time, granular decision-making by individuals that connects directly into both correctional and community systems. According to the Network for Public Health Law’s recent analysis, Equitable and E_ective Data Sharing to Support Healthy Transitions for Youth During Reentry, “consent processes should strive to maximize individuals’ control over the scope of their consents, for example, ensuring that consent is revocable at any time and that individuals understand the revocation process. Providing more granular consent options (i.e., permitting individuals to choose what data is shared with whom) is another way to increase control over a consent’s scope. Partners providing such granular consent options should aim to ensure that the inclusion of more options does not overcomplicate consent forms, frustrating the goal of clear communication. ” In part due to the complexity of privacy concerns, too few applications today provide patients with consumer-facing access to their own health data. As a result, individuals cannot actively support their own care transitions, and too often do not have access to the records of the care they were provided across correctional and community settings. Applications that support health transitions from incarceration could assist systems and individuals in navigating di_erent privacy restrictions and conditions, so that sensitive information is both visible to the patient and shared with providers and insurers (public and private) as appropriate. By leveraging technology in this way, processes can become more e_icient and generate cost savings through continuity and coordination. Promising Practices and Innovations A central component of enhanced care coordination for individuals returning to the community from incarceration is the need to share data across multiple systems including correctional facilities and community providers. Technology solutions that promote data interoperability as people return to communities have the potential to drive continuity, e_iciency and cost savings. At the individual level, health data should be visible to the patient. Subject to the patient’s consent and privacy rules, health data should be visible to 
 5 both correctional and community providers. Lastly, to ensure oversight and accountability, aggregate data should be visible to the public. Currently, based on HARP’s exploration of these issues, no one program, jurisdiction or application successfully accomplishes each of these goals. However, promising practices exist in both the public and private sectors that could inform CMS work in this area. These include: ● Allegheny County, Pennsylvania: The Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, integrated data warehouse fosters e_ective data sharing and systems integration to support individuals’ transitions from incarceration to the community. In partnership with the National Academy for State Health Policy, HARP recently published a brief detailing Allegheny County’s strategies around clinical information sharing, which can serve as a model to identify community-level data sharing that could be scaled or disseminated. Allegheny County also operates a public-facing dashboard monitoring access to Medication for Opioid Use Disorder (MOUD) in the community before incarceration, during detention in the Allegheny County Jail, and back in the community post-release. These e_orts were undertaken out of a recognition that the risk of opioid overdose was particularly high for individuals in the period following release from the Allegheny County Jail. These technological resources allow for real-time knowledge transfer among patients and providers about who has received what services in what setting, contributing to continuity and e_iciency during the high-risk transition period. They also allow County o_icials to track outcomes on a longitudinal basis, both before and after release. ● Johnson County, Kansas: Public safety o_icials and technologists in Johnson County, Kansas have focused their e_orts on improving data sharing across systems including the Department of Corrections, jails, police departments, and public health to facilitate access to health care in the community. Johnson County’s e_orts have focused on using publicly available data sources to enhance predictive analytics and identify individuals who are at higher risk of going to jail within a year, overdose, or suicide. Studies of the e_ort have indicated that it has led to a 23% reduction in recidivism, and an increase in participation in relevant mental health services. This model has demonstrated the potential to not only bolster health outcomes but create safer communities with fewer individuals returning to jail and prison. 
 6 In addition to our work identifying innovative approaches to data integration across the country we have solicited the feedback of subject matter experts in the ﬁeld on consumer facing applications that can support reentry. We found a need for interoperable technology that could both support a successful reentry by streamlining connections to care and community supports and provide individuals access to their health records post release. While we are aware of applications under development in the ﬁeld, there are too few that have been deployed to date. One example we are tracking is the app Active Community Connections = Safe Solutions (ACC=SS), which is currently in development. This model, which has the potential for scale, helps bridge the divide between individuals reentering the community and direct service organizations by utilizing geolocation technology. Individuals reentering the community could identify services in their area through the consumer facing application. Oftentimes navigating and connecting to the complex landscape of health care and community supports can be overwhelming, and we believe opportunities to create e_iciencies through technology could be transformative for health and reentry e_orts across the country. Conclusion HARP strongly supports CMS’ increased focus on the potential of health technology to improve health outcomes, in particular for Medicare and Medicaid beneﬁciaries. We believe that these technologies have particularly promising implications for people who are returning to their communities following periods of incarceration, when continuity of health care access is a foundational piece of regaining stability in the community. These solutions don’t just a_ect individuals, but by extension can improve public safety, drive economic activity, and promote more e_icient use of taxpayer dollars. Thank you for the opportunity to comment as part of this RFI. Please contact me at dryan@healthandreentryproject.org with any questions about our comments. Sincerely, David Ryan Senior Director, Criminal Justice Initiatives Health and Reentry Project (HARP) 