June 16, 2025
Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Secretary
Department of Health and Human Services
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244-1850
Re: [CMS-0042-NC] Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
On behalf of Big Health, we are pleased to submit these comments in response to the above-
captioned Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem.1 Big Health’s mission is to help
bring those with common mental health conditions back to good mental health. We do that by
developing and distributing digital mental health treatment (DMHT) devices, which are digital
treatments featuring evidence-based cognitive behavioral therapy (“CBT”) techniques for common
mental health conditions.
In response to the RFI, Big Health provides a response to the following question for consideration.
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural
areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for their patients?
a. What are the current obstacles?
Big Health applauds the Agency’s focus on encouraging providers to use digital healthcare products
for their patients. We have witnessed firsthand how committed CMS is to expanding access to digital
technologies, having worked with the Agency since 2023 on establishing a pathway for
reimbursement of digital mental health treatment devices. In the CY 2025 Physician Fee Schedule
and Outpatient Prospective Payment System rulemaking cycles, CMS took the critical steps of
establishing codes2 under which to report these devices and the management of patients leveraging
these devices.3 Their actions were driven in part by two key factors: (a) a growing tension between
the continuing demand for behavioral health services and the nationwide workforce shortage of
qualified professionals; and (b) a recent study by Milliman that showed that beneficiaries had limited-
to-zero access to psychotherapy services for common mental health conditions prior to initiating
1 90 Fed Reg. 21034 (May 16, 2025) (Request for Information).
2 G0552 Supply of digital mental health treatment device and initial education and onboarding, per course of treatment that
augments a behavioral therapy plan; G0553 First 20 minutes of monthly treatment management services directly related to
the patient's therapeutic use of the digital mental health treatment (dmht) device that augments a behavioral therapy plan,
physician/other qualified health care professional time reviewing information related to the use of the dmht device,
including patient observations and patient specific inputs in a calendar month and requiring at least one interactive
communication with the patient/caregiver during the calendar month; G0554 Each additional 20 minutes of monthly
treatment management services directly related to the patient's therapeutic use of the digital mental health treatment
(dmht) device that augments a behavioral therapy plan, physician/other qualified health care professional time reviewing
data generated from the dmht device from patient observations and patient specific inputs in a calendar month and
requiring at least one interactive communication with the patient/caregiver during the calendar month
3 89 Fed. Reg. 97924 (December 9, 2024) (CY 2025 MPFS Final Rule)
- 1 -
DM_HC 1783708-1.111336.0613

second-line (risky) drugs, therapies that may be inconsistent with clinical guidelines, and a significant
portion of beneficiaries went completely untreated (no psychotherapy and no medications)
While the establishment of this pathway is a critical first step, adoption of the technology has been
slow and challenging as providers have faced a number of obstacles (detailed below) since January
1, 2025.
(1) No national payment rate or inadequate payment rate established for the DMHT device.
While CMS established a code for reporting the furnishing of the device to the Medicare
beneficiary (G0552), the Agency did not establish a national price. Rather, it deferred to the local
Medicare Administrative Contractors (MAC) to set the payment rate. Unfortunately, more than 5
months after the services became eligible for reimbursement, the majority of MACs have not yet
established or published a payment rate. For the MACs who did establish a rate, the provider
reimbursement rate is less than 20% of the cost incurred by the practice for the device.
(2) Lack of understanding about these devices and actions taken by CMS. Engagement with the
MACs by providers has shown that many of the MACs do not fully comprehend what CMS did in
the final rule and why. As such, their communications with the providers seeking to access these
devices when clinically appropriate for their patients seem to be inaccurate or inconsistent with
what CMS was seeking to achieve with this policy change.
(3) Lack of clear direction on how to access and seek reimbursement for these services. Due
to the perceived lack of understanding or commitment to these DMHT devices, MACs are giving
inconsistent or incomplete answers when asked by qualified providers.
Many providers have decided to forego furnishing these critically important and clinically appropriate
services to Medicare beneficiaries until these outstanding hurdles are removed.
To address these types of challenges for future digital technologies, we provide the following
recommendations:
(1) Establish national pricing reflective of the costs from the onset. The challenges that we are
experiencing specific to carrier pricing are not new but rather, they are consistent the experiences
those of other companies and stakeholders whose services have been subject to carrier pricing.
CMS has the authority to set national rates for any new code(s) so we strongly encourage CMS to
set appropriate rates, taking into consideration feedback from the innovators of these types of
technologies.
(2) Detailed communication with the MACs. While CMS may address policy changes at a high
level in their quarterly transmittals to the MACs, we strongly recommend more detailed
engagement and communication to the MACs when implementing a policy such as the one
finalized for January 1, 2025. The additional communication will give the MACs more insight into
the Agency’s considerations behind and objectives for the new policy.
Overall, it will be critically important that the Agency not only establish the policies for the adoption of
digital technologies and health apps but also take the next steps post-policy effective date to ensure
that the policy translates into actual access by Medicare beneficiaries to these important technologies
and innovations.
* * * * *
- 2 -
DM_HC 1783708-1.111336.0613

Big Health appreciates CMS’s request for information stakeholders on how to improve the health
technology ecosystem including creating an environment in which innovative digital technologies can
address the needs of Medicare beneficiaries. Big Health asks that CMS heed the feedback from
stakeholders and take steps to ensure that providers can access and use these critical services with
Medicare beneficiaries.
Sincerely yours,
/s/
Jenna Carl, Ph.D.
Chief Medical Officer
Big Health
- 3 -
DM_HC 1783708-1.111336.0613