June 16, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attn: Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology
Re: file code CMS-0042-NC
Dear Assistant Secretary:
In response to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) request for information
on May 16, 2025, regarding health Technology Ecosystem – file code CMS-0042-NC, Capital
Rx, Inc. (“Capital Rx”) is excited to describe the innovations it has achieved to reduce client
expenditures, improve administration of plan benefits, provide greater transparency into
management of our client’s plan expenditures, and improve access to accurate information for
our members and health plan clients. We believe these innovations can be adopted by CMS for
Parts A, B, C and D to provide greater efficiency for the Medicare program, and improved access
and information to Beneficiaries.
Capital Rx’s Judi®, our proprietary claims processing platform serving commercial, Medicare,
and Medicaid lines of business, was built from the ground up to streamline all the necessary
functions to administer a pharmacy benefit efficiently. It is the only platform of its kind built
following the enactment of Medicare Part D, and Judi can handle Medicare and Medicaid claims
processing requirements without the usual worries about bending outdated systems to meet
regulatory standards.
Judi represents a paradigm shift in pharmacy benefits administration. With its flexible design,
friendly UI, scalability, and adaptability, health plans can confidently meet regulatory
requirements and accommodate unique member needs. Judi is designed to handle all
administrative workflows and processes on one platform for all plan types: Medicare, Medicaid,
and Commercial. It does so in seamless and user-friendly way, eliminating the pain point arising
from the use of an antiquated legacy claim administration infrastructure used by the vast majority
of the health care industry (switching between systems). In addition, Capital Rx believes Judi is
the only claims processing platform that is process pharmacy and medical claims and capable of
providing unified claims processing. Thus, providing real-time data sharing across medical and
pharmacy claims and reducing administrative friction.

A simple example to demonstrate the benefits of Judi, and unified claims processing, is by
reviewing how eligibility files are managed under the current health infrastructure. This should
be a simple process of determining whether a beneficiary is eligible or not for their benefit.
However, because the medical and prescription platforms used today by the health industry are
different, and the systems used by each carrier, provider, and payor is different, the moment an
eligibility file moves from one system to the next it is already inaccurate. Thus, there is a risk of
beneficiaries being mistakenly identified as ineligible, claims inappropriately being paid, not
paid, claims being coded incorrectly etc. However, if the claims processing platform used for
medical and prescription is unified – these risks as mitigated, if not eliminated.
The effectiveness of Judi in assisting our payor clients to reduce costs and improve the member
experience is evident by the success of Capital Rx. Most recently, Rice University stated its plan
costs were down at least 5% after moving to Capital Rx as compared to their previous vendor.
Rice University attributed the simplicity of Capital Rx’s approach, and the ability for Rice
University to leverage Judi’s to realize the value centralized platform may provide – easy access,
flexibility to implement changes quickly, and scalability.
Further, an early adopter of Capital Rx and Judi experienced a per employee per month trend of -
11.8% through the end of 2022. The actual annual costs experienced by this client was 9.7%
lower than the client’s actuarial projects for the same time period.
In summary, Judi will enable CMS to centralize processes, improve the patient experience, and
drastically reduce costs. As mentioned above, this can be achieved through (i) real-time patient
and plan management for both pharmacy and medical benefits, (ii) Centralized operational,
administrative, and financial services under one unified workflow, removing administrative
waste, (iii) Enablement of innovative pricing and reimbursement models, including management
of value-based care and contracting, and (iv) Removal of the patchwork of antiquated systems
and third-party dependencies contributing to inaccurate data, billing errors, lagging
reimbursement payments, and soaring, highly variable costs for care.
We welcome the opportunity to have further dialogue with CMS regarding how Judi could
provide considerable value.
Sincerely,
____________________
Lloyd Fiorini
General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer
lloydfiorini@cap-rx.com

Signature:
Email: lloydfiorini@cap-rx.com

Medicare Letter
Final Audit Report 2025-06-16
Created: 2025-06-16
By: Andrew Goddard (andrewgoddard@cap-rx.com)
Status: Signed
Transaction ID: CBJCHBCAABAAZnmAa1aPpSwosZ-MGJ7ewENqPG4d30hF
"Medicare Letter" History
Document created by Andrew Goddard (andrewgoddard@cap-rx.com)
2025-06-16 - 3:34:04 PM GMT
Document emailed to Lloyd Fiorini (lloydfiorini@cap-rx.com) for signature
2025-06-16 - 3:34:08 PM GMT
Email viewed by Lloyd Fiorini (lloydfiorini@cap-rx.com)
2025-06-16 - 3:35:04 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Lloyd Fiorini (lloydfiorini@cap-rx.com)
Signature Date: 2025-06-16 - 3:35:27 PM GMT - Time Source: server
Agreement completed.
2025-06-16 - 3:35:27 PM GMT