Response to HHS Health Sector Al RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and
Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-4413)

To: Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)

From: Citrix Systems, Inc., a Cloud Software Group company

Date: February 23, 2026

Subject: Comment on RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-4413)

|. Executive Summary: The Infrastructure for Al Readiness

While much of the healthcare industry's focus remains on the development of Al-
powered applications, Citrix identifies the primary bottleneck to adoption as the
deployment and delivery layer. In a healthcare environment characterized by shared
workstations, mobile clinicians, and strict HIPAA requirements, an Al tool is only as
effective as its availability at the point of care.

Citrix provides an industry leading platform that serves as a digital foundation for many
healthcare organizations in support of delivering secure, connected healthcare services.
With a footprint that includes a majority of the largest healthcare organizations in the
United States and over 4,900 healthcare customers worldwide, our role is to provide the
governance layer and platform that allows healthcare organizations to transition fram Al
experimentation to large-scale clinical use without compromising security or
productivity. Our platform also helps remove friction at the bedside to ensure that
technology works invisibly in the background, allowing care teams to stay focused on
patients.

ll. Response to Specific RF] Questions (1,3,5,6)

Q1: What are the primary barriers to the adoption of Al in clinical settings?

Citrix identifies the primary barrier to Al adoption as a deployment gap — the technical
and operational friction that prevents an Al insight from reaching a clinician at the point
of care.

To overcome this, HHS should address the following structural barriers:

« The “Last Mile" delivery problem: High-performing Al models have low adoption
in clinical settings because they are not integrated into the roaming workflows of a
hospital. In environments dominated by shared workstations, a clinician cannot
afford the “cognitive tax" of logging into a separate, disconnected Al application.
