As an individual, board-certified patient advocate, the primary carepartner to twodisabled
adults, and a patient myself, |appreciate the opportunity to provide comments on the CMS RFI
on Health Technology Ecosystems.

Asa patient advocate for over 25 years, each day | work with patients and their families as they
navigate life-altering, life-limiting diagnoses, such as cancer, while navigating our complex
healthcare system. Each day, | connect patients and their loved ones to the information, tools,
and technology they need to make informed decisions about their care.

Most of mywork is concentrated in helping patients gain access to and understand the power
of their health information and how to utilize that power to navigate barriers, inequities in
access to care, and fragmentationin coordination of care.

Over the years, I've had the privilege to serve as a member of the HITAC United States Core
Data for Interoperability (USCDI) Task Force, the Interoperability Standards Workgroup, a5 an
invited subject matter expert to the HTI-1 HITAC Proposed Rule Task Force, and a contributor to
various ONC efforts. I've had the opportunity to amplify the patient and carepartner
perspective in collaborations with like of the American Medical Association (AMA), the
American Information Management Association (AHIMA), SHIFT, HIMSS Public Policy
Committee, the Sequoia Project Consumer Voices Project, HLTH Foundation Techquity
Coalition, HL? Patient Empowerment Workgroup, the Society for Participatory Medicine, Digital
Medicine Society (DiMe), and served as a CancerX Fellow. I'm grateful for the opportunity to
provide comments fram the intersection of these experiences and my daily patient advocacy
work,

Aswe dream big about finishing interoperability and building a healthcare ecosystem of the
future, may we ground ourselves inthe quote from Hubert H. Humphrey that greets all who
enter the halls of the Healthand Human Services building "The moral test of a government is
how that government treats those who are inthe dawn of life- the children; the twilight of life-
the elderly; and the shadows of life- the sick, the needy, and the handicapped.”

PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and
manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take?

a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for you or your loved ones’ health
that can be enabled by digital health products?

Relieving extreme patient administrative burden, minimizing cognitive burden and decision
paralysis, and reducing human suffering are top priorities that digital health products can
directly address. There is extensive research demonstrating significant rates of physician
burnout. Patients, their carepartners, caregivers, and families also suffer from extreme
burnout. Patient administrative burden is a silent public health crisis that significantly impacts
those living with a life-altering, life-limiting diagnosis or multiple comorbidities as well as those
living with social drivers of health.
