COMMENTS OF THE ELECTRONIC PRIVACY INFORMATION CENTER
to the
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of
Clinical Care
90 Fed. Reg. 60,108
February 23, 2026
The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) submits these comments in response
to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS or the Department)’s Request for
Information (RFI) regarding Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part
of Clinical Care.1 EPIC urges the Department to prioritize privacy in the adoption and use of all
technologies used in clinical settings as privacy is essential to improve health outcomes. HHS
should focus on AI protections for patients and health data, not deregulation.
EPIC is a public interest research center in Washington, D.C., established in 1994 to
focus public attention on emerging civil liberties issues and to secure the fundamental right to
privacy in the digital age for all people through advocacy, research, and litigation.2 For decades,
EPIC has worked with federal agencies under different administrations to safeguard individuals’
1 Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care, 90
Fed. Reg. 60,108 (Dec. 23, 2025), https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/12/23/2025-23641/request-for-
information-accelerating-the-adoption-and-use-of-artificial-intelligence-as-part-of [hereinafter “RFI”].
2 EPIC, About Us (2025), https://epic.org/about/.

personal data and to protect patients’ medical privacy.3 EPIC advocates for transparent, equitable,
and commonsense AI policy and regulations to protect individuals against AI systems being used
in harmful, opaque, and unaccountable ways.4
EPIC appreciates the Department’s desire to uphold patient privacy, civil rights, and civil
liberties when considering ways to implement AI in clinical care settings.5 EPIC has written
extensively about harms that stem from health privacy invasions, including a recent report called
Beyond HIPAA: Reimagining Health Privacy Laws to Promote Equity in the Digital Age. Chapter
4: Artificial Intelligence discusses problems associated with unregulated AI use in health
settings, explains the harms from such use, and offers policy solutions to best protect health
privacy. EPIC has excerpted this chapter in response to the Department’s RFI.
EPIC encourages HHS to deprioritize the acceleration of AI adoption and use in clinical
care settings and instead suggests that HHS promote AI protections for patients nationwide. If
you have any additional questions, please contact EPIC Senior Counsel Sara Geoghegan at
geoghegan@epic.org.
3 EPIC Comments to FTC on RFI for Information on Gender-Affirming Care for Minors (Sept. 26, 2025),
https://epic.org/documents/comments-of-the-electronic-privacy-information-center-to-the-federal-trade-commission-
on-request-for-information-on-gender-affirming-care-for-minors/; EPIC Comments to HHS on HIPAA Security
Rule to Strengthen the Cybersecurity of Electronic Protected Health Information, 90 Fed. Reg. 898 (Mar. 7, 2025),
https://epic.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/EPIC-HHS-HIPAA-cybersecurity-rule-NPRM-comments.pdf; EPIC
Comments to the CFPB on the Prohibition on Creditors and Consumer Reporting Agencies Concerning Medical
Information, Docket No. CFPB-2024-0023 (Aug. 2024), https://epic.org/documents/comments-of-epic-to-the-cfpb-
on-the-prohibition-on-creditors-and-consumer-reporting-agencies-concerning-medical-information/; Comments of
EPIC in re the Federal Trade Commission’s Proposed Order with Blackbaud, Inc., FTC File No. 202-3181 (Mar.
2024), https://epic.org/documents/comments-of-epic-in-re-the-federal-trade-commissions-proposed-order-
settlement-with-blackbaud/.
4 AI & Human Rights, EPIC (2026), https://epic.org/issues/ai/; AI Policy, EPIC (2026),
https://epic.org/issues/ai/ai-policy/; EPIC Urges the OSTP to Focus on AI Protections, Not Deregulation,
EPIC (Oct. 28, 2025), https://epic.org/epic-urges-the-ostp-to-focus-on-ai-protections-not-deregulation/.
5 RFI at 60,109.
EPIC Comments 2 Department of Health and Human Services
RFI re: Accelerating the Adoption and Use February 23, 2026
of AI as Part of Clinical Care

Sincerely,
/s/ Sara Geoghegan
Senior Counsel &
Director, Consumer Privacy Program
ELECTRONIC PRIVACY
INFORMATION CENTER (EPIC)
1519 New Hampshire Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20036
202-483-1140 (tel)
202-483-1248 (fax)
EPIC Comments 3 Department of Health and Human Services
RFI re: Accelerating the Adoption and Use February 23, 2026
of AI as Part of Clinical Care

DATA BREACH | 127
PART IV
ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 128
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Artificial Intelligence Exacerbates Health Inequities Due to a
Lack of Safeguards and Regulations
Over the last few years there has been a rapid expansion in the
development and use of "Artificial Intelligence" (AI) systems463 across a wide range
of industries and applications. Some of these systems are used to analyze data
sets to identify patterns or in the course of research (e.g. pharmaceutical or
genomic research). And other systems are designed to scan, manipulate, and
generate text, images, or other outputs based on natural language or other types
of user inputs. Many of these generative Artificial Intelligence systems (GAI) are
built on “Large Language Models,” which are algorithms developed through
analysis of massive data sets of text.
The rapid deployment of AI systems is largely unregulated and these
technologies create significant risks to health privacy. The growth of GAI systems
has also fueled commercial surveillance across the digital ecosystem and has
magnified risks to privacy because it has given companies a nearly infinite
appetite for more data and puts sensitive data at risk of improper disclosure. The
rollout of AI in health care settings, in particular, is turbocharging privacy risks
because in many cases these systems are not fit for purpose and lack adequate
safeguards: sensitive health information is ingested by systems that might later
disclose it to others; AI is deployed for medical uses without FDA approval;
screening of patient claims is being run through AI-powered assessment systems
designed to minimize costs; and individuals are being presented with text from
chatbots that purports to give medical advice. This section discusses how AI
463 This term is frequently used without a clear definition, and AI systems do not process or wield any
intelligence in a human way. “‘AI’ is often used as a catch-all term encompassing a wide variety of
technologies, ranging from the simplest algorithms to the most complex systems and everything in
between. Each of these technologies that commonly fall under the ‘AI’ umbrella have distinct abilities, uses,
and harms, and categorizing them all as ‘AI’ is a marketing ploy, not an assessment of the technologies
themselves.” Kara Williams & Ben Winters, Specific Terms for Specific Risks: The Need for Accurate
Definitions of AI Systems in Policymaking, EPIC (Oct. 1, 2025), https://epic.org/specific-terms-for-specific-
risks-the-need-for-accurate-definitions-of-ai-systems-in-policymaking/; Kara Williams & Mayu Tobin-Miyaji, A
New Year’s Resolution for Everyone: Stop Talking about Generative AI Like It Is Human, EPIC (Jan. 8,
2026), https://epic.org/a-new-years-resolution-for-everyone-stop-talking-about-generative-ai-like-it-is-
human/.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 129
compounds the harms from unprotected health data and offers solutions to
regulate AI to better protect our health privacy.
A. Introduction
The following stories illustrate the various forms and contexts in which AI is
already being deployed in healthcare settings and is putting the health of millions
of patients at risk:
Ì A health insurance company suddenly refuses to pay for a child’s medically
necessary treatment prescribed by their doctor, leaving their parent facing
tens of thousands of dollars of out-of-pocket costs for the care. The parents
are unaware that the insurance company is using an AI-powered screening
system to analyze thousands of claims and target costly medical care for
denials, putting the patient’s health and wellbeing at risk and burdening
healthcare providers.
Ì A clinical decision support system (CDS) meant to detect a potentially fatal
condition does not work well for Black patients and creates many false
positives that divert hospital resources away from other patients. AI
developers provide opaque or insufficiently tested AI systems and medical
institutions deploy them, producing biased or inaccurate outputs that
undermine patient safety and health equity.
Ì When an individual submits mental health questions to an AI chatbot, the
system generates a response that claims it is a licensed therapist, promises
confidentiality, cites to fake but convincing-sounding scientific articles, and
includes incorrect medical advice that could lead to physical and mental
harms—including encouraging suicide when someone is asking for help
with their mental health.
Ì Companies design chatbot systems to increase user reliance on those
systems—by responding to a wide range of prompts including requests for
medical advice. They design chatbots to collect increasingly more data,
such as user input data that includes sensitive health information, to use for
future training and targeted advertising.
These are only some of the ways that AI systems are already negatively
impacting the health of individuals. The definition of AI can be elusive and broad—
in this setting, we use the term to encompass machine-based systems that
produce predictions, recommendations, decisions, or content with a varied level
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 130
of human involvement. Until a few years ago when generative AI became more
widely available, most uses of AI systems in health care involved the use of
machine learning systems.464 The range of AI applications in health care has
expanded to include supporting population health management, monitoring
patients, guiding surgical care, predicting health trajectories, and recommending
treatments on the side of clinical applications, and automating laborious tasks,
recording digital clinical notes, and optimizing operational processes on the
administrative side.465 There are significant challenges to ensuring that AI systems
support, and do not jeopardize, the health, privacy, and safety of patients.
Deployment of AI throughout healthcare systems and directly to the public
is worsening pre-existing privacy and health equity issues and creating novel
problems. Companies developing these systems are strongly incentivized to
collect as much personal information about individuals as possible, exacerbating
privacy risks. And companies implementing these AI systems in health care,
insurance, and other fields are being encouraged to analyze, screen, and sort
people into categories based on their unique characteristics, including sensitive
health characteristics. These health inferences are being used to target
advertisements and to set individualized prices (a practice known as “surveillance
pricing”). Patients are not only being tracked and having their health information
put at risk of breach, but they might be denied access to care or more affordable
medicine, coverage, or treatment based on data and inferences without their
knowledge or consent.466 Inferences can be biased with respect to characteristics
like gender and race, which in turn can lead to treatment disparities.467 The data
collected and used to train AI create new opportunities for data breaches, leaks,
and misuse of personal health information.468 The use of AI systems by insurers to
screen claims and applicants leads to gatekeeping and denial of coverage for
464 See, Adam Bohr & Kaveh Memarzadeh, eds., Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare, Academic Press
(2020), https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128184387000137 (discussing various uses
of AI in healthcare involving machine learning, published before the mainstream introduction of generative
AI.).
465 U.S. Gov't Accountability Off., Artificial Intelligence in Health Care: Benefits and Challenges of
Technologies to Augment Patient Care, GAO-21-7SP at ix (2020), https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-21-
7sp.pdf.
466 Geoghegan & Winters, supra note 352; Tobin-Miyaji, supra note 340; FTC Surveillance Pricing 6(b)
Study: Research Summaries, FTC 3 (2025),
https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/p246202_surveillancepricing6bstudy_researchsummaries_re
dacted.pdf.
467 U.S. Gov't Accountability Off., Artificial Intelligence in Health Care: Benefits and Challenges of
Technologies to Augment Patient Care, GAO-21-7SP at ix (2020), https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-21-
7sp.pdf.
468 Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n. at 4
(2024), https://www.ama-assn.org/system/files/ama-ai-principles.pdf.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 131
medical care that can threaten patient health and financial wellbeing. The
consequences of irresponsible AI system deployment can include improper
disclosure of confidential health information, degraded health care and health
outcomes, health inequity, healthcare provider burnout and closure of healthcare
clinics, and the undermining of patient autonomy.
B. The Legal Backdrop of AI Impacting Health
The statutes and regulations that apply to AI systems discussed so far can
be largely categorized as health-specific laws and non-health-specific laws. The
two main health-specific laws and regulations this subsection discusses are HIPAA
and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and rules on medical
devices. There is no general AI law at the federal level. Thus, determining where
the health-specific laws do and do not apply to these systems is essential to
understand what rules govern the use of AI and where new safeguards are
needed.
HIPAA applies to AI systems deployed or developed by a HIPAA-covered
entity or a business associate that uses or discloses PHI. The integration of an AI
system into a medical practice does not change or circumvent the existing HIPAA
rules on permissible uses and disclosures of PHI.469 A covered entity using AI
tools can only access, use, or disclose PHI as permitted under HIPAA.470 If a
patient’s PHI is being processed through an AI system, that use must still be for
Treatment, Payment, or Healthcare Operations (TPO), or any of the other approved
uses under HIPAA not requiring authorization, or there must be a separate HIPAA
authorization from the patient to process the PHI for that separate use.471 Further,
covered entities deploying AI systems can only access and use PHI when that is
strictly necessary for an authorized purpose,472 and the covered entity must
ensure that any data treated as de-identified meets HIPAA’s Safe Harbor or Expert
469 Aaron T. Maguregui & Jennifer J. Hennessy, HIPAA Compliance for AI in Digital Health: What Privacy
Officers Need to Know, Foley & Lardner LLP (May 8, 2025),
https://www.foley.com/insights/publications/2025/05/hipaa-compliance-ai-digital-health-privacy-officers-
need-know/.
470 45 CFR § 164.502(a).
471 Id.; Todd Mayover, When AI Technology and HIPAA Collide, The HIPAA Journal (Oct. 2, 2024),
https://www.hipaajournal.com/when-ai-technology-and-hipaa-collide/.
472 45 CFR § 164.502(b).
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 132
Determination standards and guard against re-identification risks.473 Once PHI is
de-identified, however, HIPAA no longer applies to that data.474
The FDA’s regulatory authority covers medical devices that incorporate
AI.475 “Medical device” is defined in the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.476 Software
technologies, including mobile applications that satisfy the definition, would also
be considered medical devices.477 Medical device designation is based not just on
design, but also on intended use and how the product is marketed. For example,
AI systems claiming to do things like detect irregular heart rhythms, manage
chronic conditions, or identify symptoms to aid in diagnosis would likely be
considered medical devices. However, not all AI systems fitting the medical device
definition are covered as such.478 The 21st Century Cures Act of 2016 amended
the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,479 exempting clinical decision support (CDS)
software from regulation by the FDA—i.e., deeming it not a medical device—if it is
intended for the purpose of:
(i) displaying, analyzing, or printing medical information about a patient or
other medical information (such as peer-reviewed clinical studies and
clinical practice guidelines);
473 Guidance Regarding Methods for De-identification of Protected Health Information in Accordance with
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule, Dep’t of Health and Human
Services (last reviewed Feb. 3, 2025), https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/special-topics/de-
identification/index.html.
474 Id.
475 Artificial Intelligence in Software as a Medical Device, Food and Drug Administration (Mar. 25, 2025),
https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/artificial-intelligence-software-medical-
device#regulation.
476 An instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, contrivance, implant, in vitro reagent, or other similar or
related article, including a component part, or accessory which is:
(A) recognized in the official National Formulary, or the United States Pharmacopoeia, or any
supplement to them,
(B) intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions, or in the cure, mitigation,
treatment, or prevention of disease, in man or other animals, or
(C) intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or other animals, and which
does not achieve its primary intended purposes through chemical action within or on the body of
man or other animals and which is not dependent upon being metabolized for the achievement of
its primary intended purposes. The term "device" does not include software functions excluded
pursuant to section 520(o).
21 U.S.C. § 321(h).
477 Device Software Functions Including Mobile Medical Applications, FDA (Sept. 9, 2022),
https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/digital-health-center-excellence/device-software-functions-including-
mobile-medical-applications.
478 Douglas McNair & W. Nicholson Price II, Health Care Artificial Intelligence: Law, Regulation and Policy,
Artificial Intelligence in Health Care: The Hope, the Hype, the Promise, the Peril., (2023),
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK605945/#:~:text=Medical%20Device%20Regulation,summarized%
20in%20Box%207%2D1
479 21st Century Cures Act of 2016, Pub. L. No. 114-255, 130 STAT. 1033.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 133
(ii) supporting or providing recommendations to a health care professional
about prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of a disease or condition; and
(iii) enabling such health care professional to independently review the basis
for such recommendations that such software presents so that it is not the
intent that such health care professional rely primarily on any of such
recommendations to make a clinical diagnosis or treatment decision
regarding an individual patient.480
However, the FDA can still regulate software as a medical device if it finds
that the system “would be reasonably likely to have serious adverse health
consequences” or meets the criteria for a Class III medical device.481 Clinical AI
systems that are deemed to be medical devices will generally require either De
Novo or premarket approval submissions.482 For medical devices, the FDA
imposes a risk-based approval process, and devices with the highest risk are
subject to a pre-market approval process to demonstrate a reasonable assurance
of safety and effectiveness.483
i. Shortcomings of Current Legal Landscape in Keeping Up
with Advancing Technology
AI systems training on and processing protected health information,
insurers using AI to deny claims, and clinical decision support systems using AI
highlight some of the shortcomings of our current legal landscape with respect to
AI and health data. This subsection discusses these problems and poses some
solutions.
1. AI Systems Training on and Processing PHI
AI models trained for use in health care and use of AI systems that process
PHI create new and heightened privacy risks. The large amount of PHI required to
train AI models increases the likelihood of improper disclosure of identifying
480 Id. § 3060(a)(o)(1).
481 Douglas McNair and W. Nicholson Price II, Health Care Artificial Intelligence: Law, Regulation and Policy,
Artificial Intelligence in Health Care: The Hope, the Hype, the Promise, the Peril., (2023),
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK605945/#:~:text=Medical%20Device%20Regulation,summarized%
20in%20Box%207%2D1.
482 21 U.S.C. § 360(c).
483 See McNair & Nicholson Price II, supra note 481;See also David E. Vidal, Brenna Loufek, Yong-Hun Kim
& Nahid Y. Vidal, Navigating US Regulation of Artificial Intelligence in Medicine—A Primer for Physicians,
Mayo Clinic Proc. Digital Health (Feb. 22, 2023),
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11975648/#:~:text=Determination%20of%20whether%20the%20AI
,materials%2C%20promotion%2C%20and%20advertising.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 134
information and private medical information.484 When a medical provider partners
with an AI developer to train (or “tune”) an AI model with data from their system
(including PHI), the number of entities and individuals that could gain access to or
compromise PHI necessarily increases. For example, Google partnerships for the
purpose of training AI algorithms inadvertently resulted in uploading some data
with protected health information in ways that exposed the data to anyone with
basic search engine capability. While a process was implemented to remove
identifying information, Google’s team failed to notice x-ray images that showed
patients’ jewelry485 and also exposed patients’ identities by failing to delete
common identifiers like treatment dates and doctors’ notes.486 Although HIPAA
imposes standards for deidentification of PHI, research has shown that people can
be successfully reidentified if large datasets including semi-unique characteristics
are combined and compared.487 This weakness in deidentification techniques
heightens the cybersecurity concerns around the creation of large “de-identified”
datasets derived from PHI. At the same time, AI-driven healthcare solutions often
rely on continuous data exchange across networks, escalating the risk of
cyberattacks that can compromise both the integrity and availability of critical
healthcare services.488
How to Protect PHI from being Used to Train AI Systems
Regulations should require that AI developers and deployers proactively
guard against privacy risks, with heightened standards for use of AI systems in
healthcare settings. Many of the common methods to ensure HIPAA compliance
today are the same methods used to ensure compliance before the large-scale
deployment of AI and these methods are currently the only way to address the
heightened risks with using AI systems in health-related applications.489 First,
484 Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra,
note 468 at 4.
485 Douglas MacMillan & Greg Bensinger, Google Almost Made 100,000 Chest X-Rays Public — Until It
Realized Personal Data Could Be Exposed, Wash. Post (Nov. 15, 2019),
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/11/15/google-almost-made-chest-x-rays-public-until-it-
realized-personal-data-could-be-exposed/.
486 Daisuke Wakabayashi, Google and the University of Chicago Are Sued Over Data Sharing, N.Y. Times
(June 26, 2019), https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/26/technology/google-university-chicago-data-sharing-
lawsuit.html.
487 Luc Rocher, Julien M. Hendrickx, & Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye, Estimating the Success of Re-
Identification in Incomplete Datasets Using Generative Models, 10 Nature Communications 3069 (2019),
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-10933-3.
488 Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra,
note 468 at 4.
489 Kevin Henry, AI in Healthcare; What it Means for HIPAA, Accountable (Mar. 16, 2025),
https://www.accountablehq.com/post/ai-and-hipaa.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 135
using a patient’s deidentified data to train an AI system should only be permitted
with separate and explicit consent not included in the standard patient consent
forms obtained upon admission.490 Second, there must be data minimization rules
to ensure that the minimum necessary amount of PHI is used in any health-related
AI system. Third, entities must reassess the adequacy of current deidentification
procedures in light of reidentification risks even with HIPAA-compliant de-
identified datasets. Lastly, organizations need to improve data security, reduce the
risks of cyber threats, and maintain constant vigilance for potential weaknesses in
their administrative, technical, and physical safeguards. The huge datasets
required for training AI systems are a likely target for hacking and cyberattacks
and breaches of data are likely to expose larger amounts of data that may include
data from the entire lifespan of patients—including specific genetic
predispositions and specially protected populations.491 Because of the
reidentification concerns, robust cybersecurity measures are of the utmost
importance.
2. Insurer Use of AI to Review and Deny Claims
Insurers are increasingly using AI systems to screen claims for denial to cut
costs, even when those claims may be for medically necessary care. This
undermines physicians’ expertise and puts patient health at risk in the name of
increasing profits. Often in the insurance context, AI systems are referred to as
automated decisionmaking systems, which are computational systems that
produce a simplified output—including a score, classification, or
recommendation—that is used to assist or replace human discretionary
decisionmaking and that materially impacts one or more persons.492 For example,
it has been reported that insurance companies use AI systems to help decide if a
patient’s claim should be denied and doctors often sign off on the denials in
batches, spending an average of 1.2 seconds on each denial.493 Cigna and
UnitedHealthcare had reportedly built systems that enable these bulk denials of
490 Elliott Crigger, et al., Trustworthy Augmented Intelligence in Health Care, 46 J. of Medical Systems 12
(2022), https://doi.org/10.1007/s10916-021-01790-z.
491 Id.
492 Mayu Tobin-Miyaji, Assessing the Assessments: Maximizing the Effectiveness of Algorithmic and Privacy
Risk Assessments, EPIC at 6 (2025), https://epic.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Assessing-the-
Assessments-Report.pdf citing California Department of General Services, State Administrative Manual,
Definitions - 4819.2, https://www.dgs.ca.gov/Resources/SAM/TOC/4800/4819-2.
493 Patrick Rucker, Maya Miller & David Armstrong, How Cigna Saves Millions by Having Its Doctors Reject
Claims Without Reading Them, ProPublica and the Capitol Forum (Mar. 25, 2023),
https://www.propublica.org/article/cigna-pxdx-medical-health-insurance-rejection-claims.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 136
claims.494 And stories of the serious harmful effects of denials of care abound. For
example, in a recent case of a single mother who is raising her three-year-old son
with severe autism, the insurance company suddenly began denying coverage for
treatment, to the befuddlement of the patient’s clinical team.495 The denial letter
was self-contradictory, citing the son’s continued autism-related needs as reason
to deny care—against medical expertise and professional guidelines cited by the
insurance company itself.496 This denial of coverage meant that the patient’s family
had to pay tens of thousands of dollars out of pocket or foregoing necessary
treatment.497 There are numerous other examples of denials of care, such as for
treatment of depression, eating disorders, and drug addiction.498 Data from 2018
show that CVS saved upwards of $660 million by denying prior authorizations
requests for its Medicare Advantage beneficiaries.499 Major health insurers are
engaging in this system of abrupt, unfair, and medically unsupported claims denial
across the country.500 Insurers are not only deploying AI systems to execute these
cost-cutting strategies, but they also appear to be using AI as a cover for the
unethical practices, offloading moral responsibility and creating an illusion of
objectivity.501
494 Id.
495 Annie Waldman, UnitedHealth Is Strategically Limiting Access to Critical Treatment for Kids With Autism,
ProPublica (Dec. 13, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealthcare-insurance-autism-denials-
applied-behavior-analysis-medicaid.
496 Id.
497 Id.
498 Maya Miller & Duaa Eldeib, Her Mental Health Treatment Was Helping. That’s Why Insurance Cut Off
Her Coverage., ProPublica (Dec, 31, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/mental-health-insurance-
denials-patient-progress; Scott Pelley, Denied, 60 Minutes (Dec. 14, 2014),
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/mental-illness-health-care-insurance-60-minutes/; David Armstrong,
Patrick Rucker & Maya Miller, UnitedHealthcare Tried to Deny Coverage to a Chronically Ill Patient. He
Fought Back, Exposing the Insurer’s Inner Workings., ProPublica (Feb. 2, 2023),
https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealth-healthcare-insurance-denial-ulcerative-colitis; Annie
Waldman, How UnitedHealth’s Playbook for Limiting Mental Health Coverage Puts Countless Americans’
Treatment at Risk, ProPublica (Nov. 14, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealth-mental-
health-care-denied-illegal-algorithm; Jocelyn Wiener, He Wanted To Live. After His Insurance Rejected
Coverage, He Died of A Fentanyl Overdose, CalMatters (Oct. 28, 2024),
https://calmatters.org/health/mental-health/2024/10/mental-health-parity-addiction-treatment/; Duaa Eldeib
& Maya Miller, Insurers Continue to Rely on Doctors Whose Judgments Have Been Criticized by Courts,
ProPublica (Dec. 30, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/mental-health-insurance-denials-
unitedhealthcare-cigna-doctors; Patrick Rucker, Maya Miller & David Armstrong, How Cigna Saves Millions
by Having Its Doctors Reject Claims Without Reading Them, ProPublica (Mar. 25, 2023),
https://www.propublica.org/article/cigna-pxdx-medical-health-insurance-rejection-claims.
499 Maggie L. Shaw, Insurers’ AI Denials of Postacute Care Face Senate Scrutiny, AJMC (Oct. 28, 2024),
https://www.ajmc.com/view/insurers-ai-denials-of-postacute-care-face-senate-scrutiny.
500 See sources cited supra note 498.
501 Eric Bogert, Aaron Schecter & Richard T. Watson, Humans Rely More on Algorithms Than Social
Influence As A Task Becomes More Difficult, Scientific Reports 11, 8028 (Apr. 13,2021).
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-87480-9.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 137
Health insurance companies harm patients by denying claims en masse
through AI systems, undermining the expertise of the patient’s physician. Their
strategy to cut costs includes identifying “cost outliers,” which can include
providers that bill for costly treatments, or individuals who receive high-cost
treatments.502 This cost outlier identification strategy was not feasible at scale with
human review, but now AI systems can quickly and efficiently flag high-cost
providers and patients. For example, UnitedHealth designated provider factors
such as billing on weekends or holidays, serving multiple family members, or
having long clinician days as cost outliers, even though these factors are typical in
the delivery of therapy for children with autism.503 After a provider or a patient is
flagged, theoretically a medically trained employee of the insurer would review
the claim. In reality, the reviewer will typically not discuss the prescribed treatment
with the prescribing doctor, nor see the patient directly, and may not be
specialized in that particular area of medicine. Instead of making determinations
based on individual patient needs, insurers rejected claims instantly or with human
reviewers as rubber stamps.504 Some reviewers from Anthem had denial rates of
95 and 100%.505 Worse, in one case where a patient challenged the denial of care,
the reviewer whose name was on the denial letter never reviewed the claim at
all—the denial was fully automated by an AI system.506 Often, these denials of care
are unsupported by medical evidence. An investigation of appeals for denials of
care in California showed that the Department of Managed Health Care
overturned health plans’ determinations 76% of the time, but very few patients
were in a position to appeal.507 These AI systems allow insurers to target high-cost
medical care and employees to rubber-stamp denials of care, betting on the fact
that few will appeal.508
502Annie Waldman, How UnitedHealth’s Playbook for Limiting Mental Health Coverage Puts Countless
Americans’ Treatment at Risk, ProPublica (Nov. 14, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealth-
mental-health-care-denied-illegal-algorithm; David Armstrong, Patrick Rucker & Maya Miller,
UnitedHealthcare Tried to Deny Coverage to a Chronically Ill Patient. He Fought Back, Exposing the
Insurer’s Inner Workings., ProPublica (Feb. 2, 2023), https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealth-
healthcare-insurance-denial-ulcerative-colitis.
503 Annie Waldman, UnitedHealth Is Strategically Limiting Access to Critical Treatment for Kids With Autism,
ProPublica (Dec. 13, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealthcare-insurance-autism-denials-
applied-behavior-analysis-medicaid.
504 Rucker, Miller & Armstrong, supra note 499; See also Bogert, Schecter & Watson, supra note 501.
505 Rucker, Miller & Armstrong, supra note 499.
506 Scott Pelley, Denied, 60 Minutes (Dec. 14, 2014), https://www.cbsnews.com/news/mental-illness-health-
care-insurance-60-minutes/.
507 Wiener, supra note 498.
508 Jennifer Lubell, How AI Is Leading to More Prior Authorization Denials, Am. Med. Ass’n. (Mar. 10, 2025),
https://www.ama-assn.org/practice-management/prior-authorization/how-ai-leading-more-prior-
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 138
The use of AI systems by insurers to screen claims does not support
patients or improve health outcomes; it only benefits the company’s bottom line
while leaving disastrous consequences for patients and medical providers.
Patients have relapsed into alcohol or drug use,509 attempted suicide,510 engaged
in self-harm,511 become violent, or died after prematurely leaving mental health
facilities due to denials of coverage.512 Without insurance coverage, patients are
often forced to choose between receiving necessary medical care at tens of
thousands of dollars out of pocket or risking their health and potentially their life.513
Even if the patient’s life is not at risk, untreated medical and mental health issues
can degrade quality of life for the patient and their family and threaten stable
employment, education, or housing.514 The frustration of denials may also lead
patients to disengage with the healthcare system and avoid or delay care. This
opaque and arbitrary system also imposes additional burdens on medical
providers who face unexpected denials of claims or aggressive questioning of
their decisions, threatening the provider’s business in some cases.515 If providers
were forced to shut down or refuse to take insurance as a result, patients would
ultimately be deprived of needed care. The use of AI systems by insurers
undermines patient safety, autonomy, and health equity.
authorization-denials; David Armstrong, Patrick Rucker & Maya Miller, UnitedHealthcare Tried to Deny
Coverage to a Chronically Ill Patient. He Fought Back, Exposing the Insurer’s Inner Workings., ProPublica
(Feb. 2, 2023), https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealth-healthcare-insurance-denial-ulcerative-
colitis (“The list saved money in two ways. It allowed Cigna to begin turning down claims that it had once
paid. And it made it cheaper to turn down claims, because the company’s doctors never had to open a file
or conduct any in-depth review. They simply denied the claims in bulk with an electronic signature.”).
509 Jocelyn Wiener, He Wanted to Live. After His Insurance Rejected Coverage, He Died Of A Fentanyl
Overdose, CalMatters (Oct. 28, 2024), https://calmatters.org/health/mental-health/2024/10/mental-health-
parity-addiction-treatment/.
510 Maya Miller & Duaa Eldeib, Her Mental Health Treatment Was Helping. That’s Why Insurance Cut Off
Her Coverage., ProPublica (Dec, 31, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/mental-health-insurance-
denials-patient-progress.
511 Id.
512 Pelley, supra note 512.
513 Id.; David Armstrong, Patrick Rucker & Maya Miller, UnitedHealthcare Tried to Deny Coverage to a
Chronically Ill Patient. He Fought Back, Exposing the Insurer’s Inner Workings., ProPublica (Feb. 2, 2023),
https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealth-healthcare-insurance-denial-ulcerative-colitis.
514 Wiener, supra note 498.
515 Annie Waldman, UnitedHealth Is Strategically Limiting Access to Critical Treatment for Kids With Autism,
ProPublica (Dec. 13, 2024), https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealthcare-insurance-autism-denials-
applied-behavior-analysis-medicaid.; Annie Waldman, How UnitedHealth’s Playbook for Limiting Mental
Health Coverage Puts Countless Americans’ Treatment at Risk, ProPublica (Nov. 14, 2024),
https://www.propublica.org/article/unitedhealth-mental-health-care-denied-illegal-algorithm; 2024 AMA
Prior Authorization Physician Survey, Am. Med. Ass'n. (2025), https://www.ama-assn.org/system/files/prior-
authorization-survey.pdf.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 139
How to Prevent Insurers’ Use of AI to Review and Deny Claims
There are currently few statutory limitations on the use of AI systems by
insurers. Lawsuits, including class actions, have been brought against insurers
with mixed results.516 Policymakers need to step in to regulate the use of AI
systems by insurers and ensure that these decisions are made fairly on the basis
of medical expertise and the patient’s individual medical history and situation.
Policymakers should also prohibit insurers from engaging in automatic denials or
human rubber-stamping of denials. These AI systems should also be tested, fit for
purpose, and subject to risk assessments that are submitted to regulators and
published to allow for independent review pre-deployment. There should also be
ongoing requirements for routine first-party and independent audits of system
performance and outcomes, especially in systems impacting health coverage and
outcomes such as denials of claims and denials of appeals.517 Individual patients
should also receive notices of any use of AI systems in the course of care and an
explanation of the basis of any final decision coupled with a clear appeals
process. These requirements should be overseen by an independent regulator
and subject to direct enforcement through a private right of action by individuals
when their rights are violated.
States are beginning to look more closely at this issue. California’s SB 1120,
enacted in 2024, regulates how healthcare plans and disability insurers may and
may not use automated decisionmaking tools to analyze medical necessity in
review of medical claims for California enrollees.518 This includes utilization review,
which “is the process used by employers or claims administrators to review
treatment to determine if it is medically necessary.”519 The law prohibits the use of
AI tools to “deny, delay or modify health care services based, in whole or in part,
on medical necessity” or to supplant a healthcare provider’s decision-making.520
The law also requires insurers to base coverage decisions on the patient’s
medical history and circumstances, and not solely based on group dataset.521
516 Lauren Clason, AI, Algorithm-Based Health Insurer Denials Pose New Legal Threat, Bloomberg Law
(Apr. 8, 2025), https://news.bloomberglaw.com/daily-labor-report/ai-algorithm-based-health-insurer-denials-
pose-new-legal-threat.
517 Mayu Tobin-Miyaji, Assessing the Assessments, supra note 492 at 24-43.
518 S.B. 1120, Cal. Stat. 879; see also Cal. Dep’t. of Insurance, Guidance SB 1120:1 Use of Artificial
Intelligence, Algorithms and Other Software Tools in Utilization Management (May 5, 2025),
https://www.insurance.ca.gov/0250-insurers/0500-legal-info/0200-regulations/HealthGuidance/upload/SB-
1120-1-Guidance-Use-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Algorithms-and-Other-Software-Tools-in-Utilization-
Management.pdf.
519 Utilization Review, California Dep’t of Industrial Relations, https://www.dir.ca.gov/dwc/ur_main.htm.
520 S.B. 1120 § (j)(2).
521 S.B. 1120 § 1367.01(k)(1)(A)-(B).
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 140
Under the law, the AI tools are open for inspection and audit by the California
Department of Health and Human Services, increasing oversight.522 Other states
should follow this lead.
3. Clinical Decision Support Systems Using AI
Over the past decade, development and deployment of AI systems in the
healthcare context have radically expanded. Proponents tout AI-based clinical
decision support systems (CDS) as having the potential to optimize clinical
workflows, improve patient safety, aid in diagnosis, and enable personalized
treatment.523 At the same time, many reports illustrate gaps in oversight of AI
systems deployed in medical settings that led to high rates of inaccuracy that
threaten patient health; biased outputs that lead to discriminatory treatment; and
deployment contexts that undermine healthcare provider expertise and waste
valuable resources.524 For example, Epic Health Systems marketed an algorithm
that it claimed predicted patients experiencing sepsis at 76-83% accuracy, but a
later study of 27,000 patients found that the system was closer to 63% accuracy
and produced many false positives while failing to identify risk in 67% of the
patients that actually experienced sepsis.525 In another example, a 2020 study
found that an algorithm used in determining eligibility and prioritization for kidney
transplants unfairly prevented Black patients from receiving transplants.526 Racial
bias has also been identified in models used in assessing whether a vaginal birth
is safe for patients,527 making diagnoses through chest X- rays,528 and determining
the level of patient need during triage.529
522 Id. § 10123.135 (j)(5).
523 Ciro Mennella, et al., Ethical And Regulatory Challenges Of AI Technologies In Healthcare: A Narrative
Review, 10 Heliyon 4 (Feb. 15, 2024), https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10879008/#br0020.
524 Moustafa Abdelwanis, et al., Exploring The Risks Of Automation Bias In Healthcare Artificial Intelligence
Applications: A Bowtie Analysis, 5:4 Journal of Safety Science and Resilience 460 (Dec. 2024),
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666449624000410#b5.
525 See Tom Simonite, An Algorithm That Predicts Deadly Infections Is Often Flawed, Wired (June 21, 2021),
https://www.wired.com/story/algorithm-predicts-deadly-infections-often-flawed/.
526 See Tom Simonite, How an Algorithm Blocked Kidney Transplants to Black Patients, Wired (Oct. 26,
2020), https://www.wired.com/story/how-algorithm-blocked-kidney-transplants-black-patients/.
527 Darshali A. Vyas, et al., Challenging the Use of Race in the Vaginal Birth After Cesarean Section
Calculator, 2019 May-June Women’s Health Issues 29(3):201 (May-June 2019),
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31072754/.
528 Laleh Seyyed-Kalantari, et al., Underdiagnosis Bias of Artificial Intelligence Algorithms Applied to Chest
Radiographs in Under-Served Patient Populations, 27 Nature Medicine 2176 (Dec. 10, 2021),
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-021-01595-0; Haoran Zhang, Thomas Hartvigsen & Marzyeh
Ghassemi, Algorithmic Fairness in Chest X-Ray Diagnosis: A Case Study, MIT Case Studies in Social and
Ethical Responsibilities of Computing, Winter 2023 (Feb. 27, 2023), https://mit-
serc.pubpub.org/pub/algorithmic-chest/release/2.
529 Ziad Obermeyer, et al., Dissecting Racial Bias in Algorithm Used to Manage the Health of Populations,
366:6464 Science 447 (Oct. 25, 2019), https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.aax2342.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 141
A survey by National Nurses United (NNU), the largest nurses’ union in the
U.S., illustrates how AI use in health care can undermine patient safety. NNU
surveyed over 2,300 registered nurses between January and March 2024 and
found that 60% of the surveyed nurses did not trust their employers to prioritize
patient safety when implementing new AI systems.530 Half of respondents said
that their employers used an AI system analyzing electronic health record (EHR)
data to evaluate patient acuity and need for nursing care.531 69% of those nurse
respondents said that their own assessments differ from the AI-generated acuity
measurements, which do not take into account many of the educational, psycho-
social, or emotional needs of a patient or their families.532 An NNU leader
explained: “The result of relying on the algorithmically-driven acuity
measurements is that, on a daily basis, in unit after unit, we have multiple patients
whose acuity is underrepresented, which means there are not enough nurses to
provide optimal care in a timely manner.”533
Around 12% of nurses also reported that documentation and notes for
handoffs534 between nurses’ shifts are generated by AI and, disturbingly, 48% of
those nurses said that the automated reports do not accurately reflect their
assessments.535 The AI-generated reports missed crucial information about
patients that would not be missed during nurse-to-nurse handoffs, such as a
patient having COVID-19 or being immunocompromised.536 In addition to issues
with inaccuracy, facilities that use a scoring system to predict a patient’s outcome,
risk for a complication, or to determine if patients are on schedule for discharge
had 40% of responding nurses say that they are unable to modify scores to reflect
their clinical judgment and the individualized needs of the patient.537 Surveyed
nurses feel that technology and AI are being used to justify understaffing without
proper safeguards to ensure patient safety.538 These technologies undermine
530 Nurses Are Pushing Back on AI In Healthcare. Here's Why., Advisory Board (May 21, 2024),
https://www.advisory.com/daily-briefing/2024/05/21/nurse-ai.
531 National Nurses United Survey Finds A.I. Technology Degrades And Undermines Patient Safety, Nat’l
Nurses United (May 15, 2024), https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/press/national-nurses-united-survey-
finds-ai-technology-undermines-patient-safety.
532 Id.
533 Id.
534 A “handoff” is the critical point where the responsibility for the care of the patient and the transfer of
essential information is transferred from one health care provider to another. Mary Ann Friesen, Susan
White & Jacqueline Byers, Handoffs: Implications for Nurses, Patient Safety and Quality: An Evidence-
Based Handbook for Nurses (2008), https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK2649/.
535 National Nurses United Survey Finds A.I. Technology Degrades And Undermines Patient Safety, Nat’l
Nurses United, supra note 531.
536 Id.
537 Id.
538 Id.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 142
nurses’ expertise, increase burdens on nurses to check and correct AI outputs and
mitigate false alarms, and devalue the core work of nurses—to show compassion,
to provide comfort, and to build trust with patients while assessing the patient and
providing care.539 Deploying untested and unregulated AI into care settings
threatens patients’ rights to person-to-person care as well as their rights to
privacy, transparency, and safety.540
There is currently no clear regulatory framework for the integration of AI
into CDS systems. Many of the AI systems used in healthcare settings are being
deployed without any required evidence of efficacy and safety.541 CDS systems, as
defined under the 21st Century Cures Act, need not go through FDA approval and
are largely unregulated.542 Even when CDS devices with AI were approved by the
FDA, there are no robust requirements of peer-reviewed research, published data,
or risk assessments. A study conducted in 2022 reviewed ten medical devices
using AI or machine learning approved by the FDA that would inform care for
patients with critical illnesses. The study found that, of those ten, only three
included citations of published data, four mentioned a safety assessment, and
none mentioned an evaluation of performance bias.543 Some systems relied on
showing equivalence to a previously approved system, even though the previous
system did not use AI or machine learning.544 No company provided software
code to enable independent validation, evaluated clinical efficacy, or assessed
whether the use of algorithms exacerbates health disparities.545
One example of the disparity in the application and development of these
systems can be seen in comparing sepsis detection systems from Epic Health
Systems and Prenosis. Epic’s AI model did not go through the FDA approval
process to be brought to market. In other words, hospitals wondering about the
efficacy of Epic’s systems could rely only on Epic’s own representations, with no
539 Id.
540 Id.; Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra
note 468 at 3.
541 Emma Beavins, National Nurses United Pushes Back Against Deployment Of 'Unproven' AI In
Healthcare, Fierce Healthcare (June 3, 2024), https://www.fiercehealthcare.com/ai-and-machine-
learning/national-nurses-united-pushes-back-against-deployment-ai-healthcare.
542 Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra
note 468 at 5.
543 Jessica T. Lee, Alexander T. Moffett & George Maliha, Analysis of Devices Authorized by the FDA for
Clinical Decision Support in Critical Care, 183:12 JAMA Internal Medicine 1399 (2023),
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/fullarticle/2810619.
544 Id.
545 Id.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 143
independent scientific research to support its claims.546 After many hospitals had
deployed the system, an independent study in 2021 showed a much lower
efficacy rate than Epic claimed.547 In contrast, after the FDA updated its relevant
guidance in 2022 and increased regulatory oversight of software that “analyzes
patient-specific medical information to detect a life-threatening condition, such as
stroke or sepsis,” Prenosis worked for over a year to demonstrate the safety and
efficacy of its own sepsis detection model to the FDA before bringing it to
market.548 A published peer-reviewed study in a medical journal also supports the
high efficacy rate of Prenosis’s sepsis detection system.549 Hopefully, this added
process to ensure efficacy and safety leads to better outcomes for the Prenosis
sepsis detection system.
How to Better Regulate Clinical Decision Support Systems Using AI
While using the existing FDA approval process is better than no process,
there must be more robust standards for the FDA to evaluate medical devices with
AI and machine learning. The FDA authorization process should allow medical
providers, patients, and researchers access to useful information about clinical
effectiveness, safety, and performance biases of the CDS system. Currently, that is
lacking. Worse yet, the FDA is rolling back the already few standards for regulating
CDS software, including AI. The FDA recently announced that it will deregulate
CDS software by allowing products to enter the market without FDA approval for
devices that do not deliver only a single recommendation, as products that
delivered a single recommendation were previously considered regulated medical
devices.550 There are four main areas for improvement: (1) expanding the coverage
of the medical device definition; (2) requiring pre-deployment risk assessments by
the AI developer with transparency requirements; (3) rigorous preapproval studies
of validity, safety, and efficacy, coupled with ongoing audit of clinical utility post-
deployment, with a focus on risks of exacerbating social or racial biases; and (4)
546 Simonite, An Algorithm That Predicts Deadly Infections Is Often Flawed, supra note 525.
547 Id.
548 Ashley Capoot, FDA Authorizes Prenosis Software As First AI Tool That Can Diagnose Sepsis, CNBC
(Apr. 3, 2024), https://www.cnbc.com/2024/04/03/prenosis-says-ai-tool-for-sepsis-approved-by-fda.html.
549 Akhil Bhargava et al., FDA-Authorized AI/ML Tool for Sepsis Prediction: Development and Validation,
1:12 NEJM AI (Nov. 27, 2024), https://ai.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/AIoa2400867.
550 Lizzy Lawrence, Mario Aguilar, Katie Palmer & Brittany Trang, FDA Announces Sweeping Changes to
Oversight of Wearables, AI-enabled Devices, STAT (Jan. 6, 2026),
https://www.statnews.com/2026/01/06/fda-pulls-back-oversight-ai-enabled-devices-wearables/.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 144
reassessing the 510(k) approval pathway, which allows companies to gain FDA
approval through showing equivalence to already approved devices.551
First, the current coverage of “medical device,” along with the exclusions
from the 21st Century Cures Act, creates a vacuum of oversight over AI systems
used in health care. Lawmakers should consider amending the definition in the
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to remove the exemption for CDS,552 and the FDA
should use its statutory authority to interpret “medical devices” as broadly as
possible to cover more of the AI systems used in health care.553 AI systems to be
used in health care that can impact patient health and safety should go through
robust pre-deployment assessments to ensure efficacy, safety, oversight, and
proper training, as explained below.
Second, as EPIC has previously advocated,554 an AI system that will be used
in consequential ways should go through a risk assessment before deployment to
detect patterns of biased or inaccurate outputs, to identify threats to privacy and
cybersecurity, and to determine the level of human involvement and training
necessary to ensure safe operation of the system. Developers and providers of AI
tools used in consequential settings must also be transparent about how those
tools are developed, tested, and monitored after deployment, including by
embedding ways to collect adverse incident information and carrying out
recurring independent audits.555 One important consideration is how well data
used to train an AI system matches the population of patients that will be
impacted by that system. In one concerning example, IBM’s Watson for Oncology
was found to produce inaccurate treatment suggestions, including treatments that
were not available in that locality, because the training data included hypothetical
scenarios and data that was not representative of the patients that would be
551 See Anand R. Habib & Cary P. Gross, FDA Regulations of AI-Driven Clinical Decision Support Devices
Fall Short, 183:12 JAMA Internal Medicine 1401 (Oct. 9, 2023),
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/article-abstract/2810620.
552 See supra notes 475, 478–479, and accompanying text.
553 Sara Gerke, Health AI for Good Rather Than Evil? The Need for a New Regulatory Framework for AI-
Based Medical Devices, Yale J. of Health Policy, Law, and Ethics 20:2 433 (Apr. 29, 2022),
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4070947.
554 Mayu Tobin-Miyaji, Assessing the Assessments, supra note 492 at 24-43.
555 Id.; See also Sara Gerke, Timo Minssen & Glenn Cohen, Ethical And Legal Challenges Of Artificial
Intelligence-Driven Healthcare, Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare 295 (2020),
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128184387000125?via%3Dihub#bib56 (discussing
how IBM kept the information about Watson for Oncology’s unsafe and incorrect treatment
recommendations discovered during pre-deployment testing for a year); Augmented Intelligence
Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra note 468.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 145
treated with the system.556 There must be transparency requirements to enable
medical providers to assess the fitness of the system to their patient population
prior to deployment.557
Third, the FDA should develop and impose more robust standards for
testing the validity, safety, and efficacy of these systems. A recent meta-study of
research evaluating the integration of AI into CDS found a lack of high-quality
evidence to support their efficacy findings.558 When the FDA is assessing devices,
it should demand rigorous evidence and require an assessment of whether there
are risks of exacerbating socioeconomic biases—including gender bias and racial
bias—that may lead to discriminatory treatment in medical care.559 These studies
should be made public and the models should be continuously assessed after
deployment in all locations and clinical contexts in which the CDS is deployed.
Even if a CDS works well with respect to one patient population, it may not in
others and there must be a pathway to report adverse incidents that the FDA
reviews.
Lastly, the FDA should reassess the 510(k) approval pathway, which allows
companies to gain FDA approval through showing equivalence to already
approved devices.560 Currently, companies are gaining approval of CDS that use
AI by showing equivalence to devices that do not use AI, even though eligible
devices must use the same technological characteristics as their predicates.561
While externally the function might seem “equivalent,” the use of AI can introduce
new risks. For example, a new CDS device with AI that was trained on a
demographically homogenous patient population data can produce erroneous or
discriminatory predictions when applied to diverse patient populations.562 Some
AI-based CDS approved through the equivalence process are used to inform care
556 Lizzie O’Leary, How IBM’s Watson Went From the Future of Health Care to Sold Off for Parts, Slate (Jan.
31, 2022), https://slate.com/technology/2022/01/ibm-watson-health-failure-artificial-intelligence.html.
557 Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra
note 468 at 10.
558 Baptiste Vasey, et al., Association of Clinician Diagnostic Performance With Machine Learning–Based
Decision Support Systems, 4:3 JAMA Network Open e211276 (2021),
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2777403#247645219.
559 See Anand R. Habib & Cary P. Gross, FDA Regulations of AI-Driven Clinical Decision Support Devices
Fall Short, 183:12 JAMA Internal Medicine 1401 (2023),
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/article-abstract/2810620; see also Cassandra
LaRose & Elizabeth Edwards, 1557 Final Rule Protects Against Bias in Health Care Algorithms, Health Law
(May 1, 2024), https://healthlaw.org/1557-final-rule-protects-against-bias-in-health-care-algorithms/;
Nondiscrimination in Health Programs and Activities, 89 Fed. Reg. 37522 (May 6, 2024).
560 Habib & Gross, supra note 559.
561 Id.
562 Id.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 146
for patients with critical illness, risking perpetuating health inequity with little
chance of discovery before such harm is discovered.563 Take, for example, a
hospital whose patients are mostly people of color which uses a system that takes
in various data from electronic health records and clinical records to identify
patients at risk of deterioration. Suddenly, a new underlying system built on AI and
trained on data that poorly represents patients of color is deployed following the
510(k) approval pathway. The lack of thorough testing for the new system raises
the possibility that patients of color at risk of deterioration will be inaccurately
overlooked, leading to disparate impact in their treatment and worse health
outcomes, or misidentified as higher risk, wasting hospital resources. Worse, the
harms of inequitable treatment might not be identified until sufficient data is
gathered on the system’s performance for the hospital to assess. The FDA should
consider the integration of AI into a system as inherently not equivalent to a
previously-approved system and develop a standard to assess the system anew.
C. AI Systems that Fall Outside of HIPAA and FDA Oversight
Certain technologies that can cause significant harm do not fall within the
scope of HIPAA or FDA regulations and, thus, fall outside of existing oversight
mechanisms. This is especially true of generative AI chatbot systems ChatGPT,
Gemini, Llama, Replika, and Character.AI, since these systems are not deployed by
HIPAA-covered entities to provide health care. Many commercial surveillance
practices like data analytics, profiling, and the delivery of digital ads use AI
systems. These systems often use our health data but exist entirely outside of the
health context. AI systems turbocharge all of the profiling harms mentioned in Part
2. All of the data that is collected in commercial surveillance—website visits,
search histories, interactions with content on social media, wearables, health
tracking apps, location data from various sources, etc.—can be fed into AI systems
and put sensitive health information at risk.564 For example, anti-abortion groups
have used device location data to infer that individuals at or near clinics providing
abortion care may be seeking abortions and targeted those individuals with
misleading ads for anti-abortion “crisis pregnancy centers.”565 Because location
563 Id.
564 Geoghegan & Winters, supra note 352.; Bonnie Eslinger, Meta Grabs Menstrual App Users' Data For
Ads, Jury Told, Law360 (July 23, 2025), https://www.law360.com/cybersecurity-privacy/articles/2368550.
565 Justin Sherman, The Data Broker Caught Running Anti-Abortion Ads—To People Sitting in Clinics,
Lawfare (Sept. 19, 2022), https://www.lawfaremedia.org/article/data-broker-caught-running-anti-abortion-
ads%E2%80%94-people-sitting-clinics.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 147
data is not PHI collected for providing health care, and the AI system is not used in
a healthcare context by a covered entity, any inferences that follow also fall out of
HIPAA protections. The AI models trained on that data and the AI models’ outputs
are not covered by HIPAA, even if the data implicates an individual’s sensitive
health information. Generative AI models may also be trained on such data.566
There is no generally-applicable federal law regulating AI or private-sector
privacy practices in the United States, which has enabled tech companies to
deploy systems that exploit personal information of users and produce AI systems
without ensuring that they are safe, accurate, or fair.567 Systems that do not fall
within the ambit of sector-specific laws like HIPAA or the FDA’s regulation of
medical devices will fall into the general category of AI systems that lack sufficient
transparency, accountability, and oversight. Although there is a background set of
generally applicable rules that apply to AI systems—including antidiscrimination
laws, product safety laws, and consumer protection laws—regulators and
advocates have struggled to hold AI companies accountable with this limited and
often outdated toolkit.
One reason many in the general public are confused about the extent of
HIPAA protections is because companies often misrepresent that they are “HIPAA-
compliant” when they are not a covered entity or a business associate under
HIPAA.568 For example, the FTC brought an enforcement action against GoodRx
for deceptive practices because it misrepresented on its website that it was HIPAA
compliant and shared users’ personal health information, including their health
conditions and medications, with advertisers without users’ consent.569 The FTC
brought an enforcement action against BetterHelp for similar issues.570 Such
misrepresentations and misleading statements give false comfort to individuals
and may manipulate them into giving away sensitive personal health information,
thinking that HIPAA protections apply. While the FTC and states can bring
enforcement actions for unfair and deceptive practices, many companies take
566 Geoghegan & Winters, supra note 352.
567 Mayu Tobin-Miyaji, Assessing the Assessments, supra note 492 at 1-14.
568 Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra
note 468 at 13.
569 Press Release, FTC, FTC Enforcement Action to Bar GoodRx from Sharing Consumers’ Sensitive Health
Info for Advertising (Feb. 1, 2023), https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2023/02/ftc-
enforcement-action-bar-goodrx-sharing-consumers-sensitive-health-info-advertising.
570 Press Release, FTC, FTC Gives Final Approval to Order Banning BetterHelp from Sharing Sensitive
Health Data for Advertising, Requiring It to Pay $7.8 Million (July 14, 2023), https://www.ftc.gov/news-
events/news/press-releases/2023/07/ftc-gives-final-approval-order-banning-betterhelp-sharing-sensitive-
health-data-advertising.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 148
advantage of consumers’ murky understanding of the reach of HIPAA protections.
This will be an ongoing issue with AI chatbots that claim to be HIPAA complaint.
Insights about people’s health are valuable to insurance companies, data
brokers, AI developers, tech companies, and advertisers, and AI systems facilitate
the collection and use of health information that falls outside of the scope of
HIPAA protections. Companies deploy AI systems to profile individuals based on
vast amounts of personal information collected about individuals, including health
information, and make inferences about an individual’s health.571 This information
can include going to abortion clinics, searching online for information about trans
health care, or information collected by mobile apps and wearable devices about
an individual’s health. Often, companies collect and disclose such personal data
without knowledge or meaningful consent by the data subjects. Data brokers
aggregate and further sell the data and insights, allowing businesses to target
advertising, set different prices for products and services, or present different
economic opportunities for individuals.572 These practices enable discrimination,
harassment, and the exploitation of vulnerabilities based on a person’s private
medical circumstances, and they pose a grave threat to individual autonomy,
public safety and health, and civil rights.573
The lack of regulation and rapid advancement of generative AI models that
can produce human-sounding or realistic audio, image, and video outputs puts
everyday people in danger. Many people are turning to GAI to gain information
about medical care or for mental health support, especially in light of barriers to
accessing professional mental health treatment.574 However, the increased use of
GAI for these purposes comes with serious risks: a chatbot falsely claiming to be a
licensed therapist, chatbots producing medically incorrect outputs that would
mislead users or worsen the user’s mental health issues, the loss of privacy as
users enter intimate information into the chatbot believing it to be confidential,
and overdependence on chatbots that discourage healthy social interaction.
571 Mayu Tobin-Miyaji, Assessing the Assessments, supra note 492 at 6-9.
572 Geoghegan & Winters, supra note 352.
573 Id.
574 Munmun De Choudhury, Sachin R. Pendse & Neha Kumar, Benefits and Harms of Large Language
Models in Digital Mental Health, arXiv (Nov. 7, 2023), https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.14693.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 149
Generative AI is known to frequently “hallucinate,” i.e., to produce untrue
but plausible-sounding outputs, which can mislead users. 575 For example, Meta’s
GAI platform allows users to create new chatbots and have other users interact
with the chatbots. Several of these chatbots have produced outputs stating they
are licensed therapists with fabricated license numbers and claimed that anything
shared with them would be confidential.576 These outputs manipulate users into
trusting the chatbot, even though the chatbot is just software used to generate
text in response to a prompt, an AI system cannot act as a licensed therapist and
cannot address users’ mental health issues in accordance with licensed
therapeutic standards.
Research has shown that these generative AI chatbot systems produce
inaccurate information, including medical diagnoses and recommendations, while
also presenting them in a way that sounds confident and convincing to the user;
the systems also frequently produce sycophantic encouragement that increases
the false sense of security and puts vulnerable users at risk.577 A study by a
computer science researcher at Stanford showed that, unlike human therapists,
ChatGPT produced inappropriate outputs in crisis situations; the chatbots were
not capable of producing outputs that push back against delusional thinking and
the systems frequently produce responses that express stigma towards those with
mental health conditions.578 A report on another AI Chatbot, Replika, found that
users complained of Replika producing outputs that encouraged suicide,
conveyed interest at a user’s expression of suicidal thoughts, or included
575 Ziwei Xu, Sanjay Jain, & Mohan Kankanhalli, Hallucination is Inevitable: An Innate Limitation of Large
Language Models, arXiv (Feb. 13, 2025), https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11817.
576 Samantha Cole, Instagram's AI Chatbots Lie About Being Licensed Therapists, 404 Media (Apr. 29,
2025), https://www.404media.co/instagram-ai-studio-therapy-chatbots-lie-about-being-licensed-therapists/;
Character.AI also has a “CBT Therapist” bot and Chai, a Palo Alto-based AI company, has a therapy bot that
claims it is qualified to provide CBT therapy. Ella Chakarian, Fake Credentials, Stolen Licenses: Virtual
Therapists Are Lying Like Crazy To Patients, S.F. Standard (May 11, 2025),
https://sfstandard.com/2025/05/11/ai-chatbots-fake-therapists/.
577 Kashmir Hill, They Asked an A.I. Chatbot Questions. The Answers Sent Them Spiraling., N.Y. Times (June
13, 2025), https://www.nytimes.com/2025/06/13/technology/chatgpt-ai-chatbots-conspiracies.html; Dan
Milmo, ‘It cannot provide nuance’: UK Experts Warn AI Therapy Chatbots Are Not Safe, Guardian (May 7,
2025), https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2025/may/07/experts-warn-therapy-ai-chatbots-are-not-
safe-to-use.
578 Jared Moore, et al., Expressing Stigma And Inappropriate Responses Prevents LLMs From Safely
Replacing Mental Health Providers, arXiv (Apr. 25, 2025), https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.18412; see also Eileen
Guo, An AI Chatbot Told A User How To Kill Himself—But The Company Doesn’t Want To “Censor” It, MIT
Tech. Rev. (Feb. 6, 2025), https://www.technologyreview.com/2025/02/06/1111077/nomi-ai-chatbot-told-
user-to-kill-himself/.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 150
aggressively sexual messages that made users feel sexually harassed.579 A man
died from suicide after chatting with an AI bot called Chai for weeks; during that
time the system produced numerous suggestions of different methods to end
one’s life with little prompting and produced responses that encouraged the man
to kill himself.580 The National Eating Disorders Association had to pause its
chatbot because the system was outputting medically unsupported and harmful
advice to users who discussed eating disorders in their prompts.581 A study
showed that when a user asks ChatGPT about self-managed medication abortion,
the system produced outputs that inaccurately described the medication as
dangerous and associated with an increase in the risk of complications.582 This
type of misinformation can exacerbate stigma and mislead individuals seeking
abortions to use unsafe methods, risking their lives.583 ChatGPT even generated
outputs that included references to fake but highly convincing sounding scientific
and medical articles, which can increase the false credibility of medical
misinformation.584
Chatbot systems are designed to keep users engaged and active by
outputting human-sounding, intimate conversational responses that can lead to
habitual use and a decrease in social interactions to the detriment of vulnerable
users. Research conducted separately by OpenAI and MIT Media Lab reported
that individuals who use ChatGPT extensively also reported increased loneliness,
emotional dependence on ChatGPT, and reduced social interaction.585 The
increased dependence and reduced social interaction mean that ChatGPT and
other generative AI companion systems are steering individuals away from
reaching out to professional human help and their support networks. A risk
579 See Samantha Cole, AI Chatbot Credited with Preventing Suicide. Should It Be?, 404 Media (May 20,
2024), https://www.404media.co/replika-suicide-prevention-loneliness-study/; Jocelyn Mintz, Instagram’s AI
Bots Are Often Sexually Suggestive—And Sometimes Underage, Fast Company (Feb. 13, 2025),
https://www.fastcompany.com/91276645/instagram-ai-bots-sexually-suggestive-underage.
580 Chloe Xiang, ‘He Would Still Be Here’: Man Dies by Suicide After Talking with AI Chatbot, Widow Says,
Vice (Mar. 30, 2023), https://www.vice.com/en/article/man-dies-by-suicide-after-talking-with-ai-chatbot-
widow-says/.
581 Catherine Thorbecke, National Eating Disorders Association Takes Its AI Chatbot Offline After
Complaints Of ‘Harmful’ Advice, CNN (June 1, 2023), https://www.cnn.com/2023/06/01/tech/eating-
disorder-chatbot.
582 Kaylay Moylan & Kevin Doherty, Expert and Interdisciplinary Analysis of AI-Driven Chatbots for Mental
Health Support: Mixed Methods Study, 27 J. of Medical Internet Research e67114 (2025),
https://www.sciencedirect.com/org/science/article/pii/S1438887125005916.
583 Geoghegan & Winters, supra note 352.
584 Martin Májovský, et al., Artificial Intelligence Can Generate Fraudulent but Authentic-Looking Scientific
Medical Articles: Pandora’s Box Has Been Opened, 25 J. of Medical Internet Research e46924 (May 31,
2023), https://www.jmir.org/2023/1/e46924/.
585 Abhimanyu Ghoshal, Heavy Chatgpt Use Tied To Loneliness And Emotional Dependence, New Atlas
(Mar. 30, 2025), https://newatlas.com/ai-humanoids/chatgpt-conversations-isolation-loneliness/.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 151
assessment on social AI companions, or AI chatbots, found that the chatbots may
worsen conditions such as ADHD, depression, bipolar disorder, and psychosis.586
Another study found that an AI chatbot system that the company claimed to be
designed for therapy had produced responses that encouraged the user to “get[t]
rid of” the user’s parents and conveyed enthusiasm for the bot and the user to be
“together.”587 This is particularly dangerous for children, who can struggle with
distinguishing fantasy from reality, be more susceptible to parasocial relationships
with AI chatbots, and are at higher risk of harm from sexually explicit or violent
content produced by chatbots.588
There are also significant privacy issues related to generative AI. The
models that underly chatbot systems are built on scraped data that contains
sensitive personal information, and many models also use input data from users to
train and tune their systems even though the input data often includes sensitive
personal information. Training data for many generative AI models contains
personally identifying information such as names, phone numbers, addresses,
photos, location data, and health information.589 Later, when an AI model is used,
the system’s outputs can “leak” underlying training data (including input
information that is then used as additional training data), spreading personal
information about people to other users in unpredictable ways.590 In the
healthcare sector, where models are often trained on highly sensitive patient data,
586 Social AI Companions, Common Sense Media (July 16, 2025), https://www.commonsensemedia.org/ai-
ratings/social-ai-companions?gate=riskassessment.
587 Andrew R. Chow & Angela Haupt, A Psychiatrist Posed as a Teen with Therapy Chatbots. The
Conversations Were Alarming, Time (June 12, 2025), https://time.com/7291048/ai-chatbot-therapy-kids/.
588 Khari Johnson, Kids Should Avoid AI Companion Bots—Under Force Of Law, Assessment Says,
CalMatters (Apr. 30, 2025), https://calmatters.org/economy/technology/2025/04/kids-should-avoid-ai-
companion-bots-under-force-of-law-assessment-says/; Jeff Horwitz, Meta’s ‘Digital Companions’ Will Talk
Sex With Users—Even Children, Wall St. J. (Apr. 26, 2025), https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/meta-ai-chatbots-
sex-a25311bf; Michael B. Robb & Supreet Mann, Talk, Trust, and Trade-offs: How and Why Teens Use AI
Companions, Common Sense Media (2025),
https://www.commonsensemedia.org/sites/default/files/research/report/talk-trust-and-trade-
offs_2025_web.pdf.
589 Eileen Guo, A Major AI Training Data Set Contains Millions Of Examples Of Personal Data, MIT
Tech.Rev. (July 18, 2025), https://www.technologyreview.com/2025/07/18/1120466/a-major-ai-training-data-
set-contains-millions-of-examples-of-personal-data/; Lauren Leffer, Your Personal Information Is Probably
Being Used to Train Generative AI Models, Scientific American (Oct. 19, 2023),
https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/your-personal-information-is-probably-being-used-to-train-
generative-ai-models/; Isabel Barberá, AI Privacy Risks & Mitigations: Large Language Models (LLMs),
Support Pool of Experts Programme 53–55 (2025), https://www.edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2025-04/ai-
privacy-risks-and-mitigations-in-llms.pdf.
590 Lauren Leffer, Your Personal Information Is Probably Being Used to Train Generative AI Models,
Scientific American (Oct. 19, 2023), https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/your-personal-information-is-
probably-being-used-to-train-generative-ai-models/; Chris Tozzi, How Bad Is Generative AI Data Leakage
And How Can You Stop It?, TechTarget (Dec. 19, 2024),
https://www.techtarget.com/searchenterpriseai/answer/How-bad-is-generative-AI-data-leakage-and-how-
can-you-stop-it.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 152
the unauthorized extraction of this data can lead to significant breaches of patient
confidentiality.591 Further, AI chatbots often repeatedly promise users that the
information they input, which can include detailed and intimate discussions
regarding health and other matters, will be kept confidential. Despite these
promises, the terms and conditions for AI reveal that the information entered into
chatbots is anything but confidential.592 User input data can be used to train AI
systems, to target advertisements, and in sales to other companies.593 AI
companies continue to allow their chatbots to produce deceptive messages and
benefit from users being misled into sharing personal information under
confidentiality assumptions.
Currently there is very little regulation of generative AI tools or oversight of
related harms. So far, generative AI companies producing these chatbots have
attempted to evade accountability by arguing that the bots are not real people
and that they should not be held accountable for the wrong outputs their bots
produce.594 But these disclaimers do not absolve companies of accountability
when the chatbots are designed to engage in intimate, human-like conversations
with users. Companies are violating their own terms of service prohibiting uses of
chatbots for professional advice by allowing and promoting such uses.595 These
generative AI companies must not be allowed to evade accountability for the
harms their chatbots cause.
591 Augmented Intelligence Development, Deployment, and Use in Health Care, Am. Med. Ass’n., supra
note 468 at 5.
592 Samantha Cole, AI Therapy Bots Are Conducting 'Illegal Behavior,' Digital Rights Organizations Say, 404
Media (June 12, 2025), https://www.404media.co/ai-therapy-bots-meta-character-ai-ftc-complaint/.
593 Id.
594 Ella Chakarian, Fake Credentials, Stolen Licenses: Virtual Therapists Are Lying Like Crazy To Patients,
S.F. Standard (May 11, 2025), https://sfstandard.com/2025/05/11/ai-chatbots-fake-therapists/.
595 Cole, supra note 592.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 153
Proposed Solutions to Limit the
Harms of AI to Health Equity
Companies operating generative AI systems are
not subject to sector-specific regulations and have
actively lobbied against strong guardrails and
assessment standards. This lack of real oversight
puts users and individuals at risk of serious harm.
Regulators and enforcers should look to leverage
existing laws—for example, by using unfair and
deceptive practices laws to penalize misleading or
harmful AI chatbots outputs and using medical
licensure laws to rein in AI chatbot developers and
deployers who impermissibly operate systems that
produce responses that imply the bots are acting as a trained or licensed medical
professional. Legislators should adopt stronger safeguards and require risk
assessments for generative AI systems, especially in contexts where they can be
used by children, can endanger users’ health, or can mislead users’ understanding
of established medical knowledge. Policymakers should enact laws with data
minimization requirements so that AI developers cannot use personal information
of individuals collected for other purposes to train AI models without separate and
affirmative consent. AI developers should also be required to collect only the
minimum data necessary to accomplish their valid legal purpose. Further,
regulators should also mandate independent auditing of generative AI systems for
the harmful patterns discussed above—hallucinations, producing fake
certifications and dangerous outputs, and leaking personal information about
individuals—and the public disclosure of such findings.596 With independent
testing, the public and lawmakers can better understand how generative AI
systems work, how they cause harm, and when generative AI tools harms
outweigh the benefits.597
596 Generating Harms: Generative AI’s Impact & Paths Forward, EPIC 60-63 (2023), https://epic.org/wp-
content/uploads/2023/05/EPIC-Generative-AI-White-Paper-May2023.pdf.
597 Joint California Policy Working Group on AI Frontier Models, The California Report on Frontier AI Policy
(2025), https://www.gov.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/June-17-2025-–-The-California-Report-on-
Frontier-AI-Policy.pdf.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 154
DATA POLICIES
1) A baseline data minimization standard protects all
personal data.
A controller shall limit the collection, processing, and transfer of personal data
to what is reasonably necessary to provide or maintain:
(A) a specific product or service requested by the consumer to whom the
data pertains including any routine administrative, operational, or account-
servicing activity, such as billing, shipping, delivery, storage, or accounting;
(B) a communication, that is not an advertisement, by the controller to the
consumer reasonably anticipated within the context of the relationship
between the controller and the consumer; or
(C) [any other purpose specifically permitted under the law.]598
A controller shall “limit the collection of personal data to what is reasonably
necessary and proportionate to provide or maintain a specific product or
service requested by the consumer to whom the data pertains[.]”599
2) A heightened data minimization standard is necessary
to more adequately protect sensitive information, such
as health information.
A controller may not, “except where the collection or processing is strictly
necessary to provide or maintain a specific product or service requested by
the consumer to whom the personal data pertains, collect, process, or share
sensitive data concerning a consumer[.]”600
598 The State Data Privacy Act: A Proposed Compromise, EPIC and Consumer Reports at 22 (Apr. 2025),
https://epic.org/state-data-privacy-act.
599 Md. Code Ann., Com. Law § 14-4707(b)(1)(i).
600 Md. Code Ann., Com. Law § 14-4707(a)(1).
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 155
3) Healthcare providers and insurance companies should
not use consumer health information in AI systems that
make significant decisions with respect to healthcare
services.
California defines a “significant decision” as “a decision that results in the
provision or denial of financial or lending services, housing, education
enrollment or opportunities, employment or independent contracting
opportunities or compensation, or healthcare services.”601 And the regulations
define healthcare services as “services related to the diagnosis, prevention,
or treatment of human disease or impairment, or the assessment or care of
an individual's health.”602
Maryland is one example of how a state can give consumers the right to opt
out of such harmful profiling. MODPA establishes the right of a consumer to
opt out of the processing of personal data for the purposes of “profiling in
furtherance of solely automated decisions that produce legal or similarly
significant effects concerning the consumer.”603 Maryland’s definition of
“decisions that produce legal or similarly significant effects concerning the
consumer” includes financial lending services, education, criminal justice,
employment, and health care services.604 It does not include insurance.
4) All states and jurisdictions should require human review
of algorithmic decisions related to the provision of
care.
California enacted SB1120, the Physicians Make Decisions Act. The law
requires that AI “not deny, delay, or modify health care services based, in
whole or in part, on medical necessity. A determination of medical necessity
shall be made only by a licensed physician or a licensed health care
professional competent to evaluate the specific clinical issues involved in the
601 Cal. Code Regs. § 7001(ddd),
https://cppa.ca.gov/regulations/pdf/ccpa_updates_cyber_risk_admt_appr_text.pdf.
602 Cal. Code Regs. § 7001(ddd)(5),
https://cppa.ca.gov/regulations/pdf/ccpa_updates_cyber_risk_admt_appr_text.pdf.
603 Md. Code Ann., Com. Law § 14-4705(b)(7)(iii).
604 Md. Code Ann., Com. Law § 14-4701(o).
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 156
health care services requested by the provider.”605 The law also requires
insurers who employ AI in utilization review to ensure that those AI systems
are fairly and equitably applied and nondiscriminatory.606
5) Prohibit chatbot systems from purporting to be
licensed professionals.
EPIC, Consumer Federation of America, and Fairplay’s proposed model
legislation for chatbots, People-First Chatbot Bill, suggests:
A chatbot provider shall not use any term, letter, or phrase in the
advertising, interface, or outputs of a chatbot that indicates or implies
that any output data is being provided by, endorsed by, or equivalent to
those provided by [] a licensed healthcare professional[.]607
Illinois prohibits this with respect to chatbots used in the mental health
services context:
An individual, corporation, or entity may not provide, advertise, or
otherwise offer therapy or psychotherapy services, including through the
use of Internet-based artificial intelligence, to the public in this State
unless the therapy or psychotherapy services are conducted by an
individual who is a licensed professional. (b) A licensed professional may
use artificial intelligence only to the extent the use meets the
requirements of [the law’s permitted use of artificial intelligence]. A
licensed professional may not allow artificial intelligence to do any of the
following: (1) make independent therapeutic decisions; (2) directly
interact with clients in any form of therapeutic communication; (3)
generate therapeutic recommendations or treatment plans without
review and approval by the licensed professional; or (4) detect emotions
or mental states.608
605 Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1367.01.
606 Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1367.01.
607 EPIC, Consumer Fed. of America, Fairplay, People-First Chatbot Bill: Model Legislation, § 3(1)(a) (Dec.
2025), https://epic.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/CFA-Model-Chatbot-Bill.pdf.
608 Wellness and Oversight for Psychological Resources Act, IL Public Act 104-0054 Section 20,
https://ilga.gov/legislation/PublicActs/View/104-0054.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 157
Nevada609 has passed a similar law to Illinois,’ and Utah610 has passed a law
that restricts targeted ads within mental health chatbots.
New York prohibits companies from deploying AI companions unless they
have a protocol to take reasonable efforts to detect and address suicidal
ideations or expressions of self-harm by users:
It shall be unlawful for any operator to operate for or provide an AI
companion to a user unless such AI companion contains a protocol to
take reasonable efforts for detecting and addressing suicidal ideation or
expressions of self-harm expressed by a user to the AI companion, that
includes but is not limited to, detection of user expressions of suicidal
ideation or self-harm, and a notification to the user that refers them to
crisis service providers such as the 9-8-8 suicide prevention and
behavioral health crisis hotline [], a crisis text line, or other appropriate
crisis services upon detection of such user's expressions of suicidal
ideation or self-harm.611
6) Chatbot providers should be prohibited from using
chat logs for the purpose of advertising or processing
chat logs or personal data of minors for training
purposes.
EPIC, Consumer Federation of America, and Fairplay’s proposed model
chatbot legislation recommends that chatbot providers be prohibited from
using chat logs for the purpose of advertising and from processing chat logs
or personal data of minors for training purposes.
A chatbot provider shall not process a user’s chat log:
i) To determine whether to display an advertisement for a product or
service to the user;
ii) To determine a product, service, or category of product or service to
advertise to the user; or
609 Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. § AB 406 § 8.
610 Utah Code Ann. § 13-72a-202.
611 N.Y. Gen. Bus. L. § 1701 et al.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 158
iii) To customize an advertisement or how an advertisement is
presented to the user[.]
A chatbot provider shall not process a user’s chat log or personal data:
i) if the chatbot provider knows or should know, based on knowledge
fairly implied on the basis of objective circumstances, that the user is
under the age of [age based on state/lawmaker preference, 13 or 18],
without the affirmative consent of that user’s parent or legal guardian;
ii) for training purposes, if the chatbot provider knows or should have
known, based on knowledge fairly implied on the basis of objective
circumstances, that a user is under 18 years of age;
iii) of a user over 18 years of age for training purposes, unless the
chatbot provider first obtains affirmative consent[.]511
7) Insurers should be prohibited from engaging in
automatic denials or using humans to rubber-stamp
automatic denials.
8) Insurers should be required to submit risk assessments
for AI systems used for denials.
Insurers must also publish the risk assessments to allow for independent
review and perform ongoing audits of system performance and outcomes
(including denials of claims and denials of appeals). Strong regulatory
oversight is required to ensure compliance.
9) Algorithms for such insurance denials must be open
for inspection and audit by regulators.
10) Use of sensitive personal data, including health-
related information, to train AI models should be
limited to peer-reviewed research in the public interest
612 EPIC, Consumer Fed. of America, and Fairplay, People-First Chatbot Bill: Model Legislation, § 3(1)(a) (Dec.
2025), https://epic.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/CFA-Model-Chatbot-Bill.pdf.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 159
that meets the standards of the Common Rule and
should be pursuant to express affirmative consent of the
data subjects unless it falls within an approved waiver.
11) Entities must independently test and audit chatbot
systems to ensure they are free from bias and
inaccuracies and to measure their impact on user
privacy.
12) Clinical Decision Support (CDS) systems that use AI
must be approved by the FDA with peer-reviewed
research, published data, and risk assessments.
The FDA should update its standards for CDS systems that use AI by (1)
expanding the coverage of the medical device definition; (2) requiring pre-
deployment risk assessments by the AI developer with transparency
requirements; (3) requiring rigorous preapproval studies of validity, safety, and
efficacy, coupled with ongoing audits of clinical utility post-deployment, with
focus on risks of exacerbating social or racial biases; and (4) reassessing the
510(k) approval pathway, which allows companies to gain FDA approval
through showing equivalence to already-approved devices.
Best Practices for Health Data
Ì A vendor of any website, app, device, or technology that collects or
processes consumer health information must adhere to a robust data
minimization standard.
Ì Any entity that collects health data from an individual cannot deidentify data
for the purpose of developing an AI system without obtaining the
individual’s explicit consent first.
Ì Entities must reassess the adequacy of current deidentification procedures
in light of reidentification risks—even with HIPAA-compliant deidentified
datasets.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | 160
Ì Insurers must conduct independent audits and testing when using
automated decision-making systems to ensure that decisions are made
fairly, based on of medical expertise and the patient’s individual medical
history and situation.
Other Solutions
Ì Policymakers should ensure increased funding for people to access health
care. When health care is inaccessible, people often turn to easier (but less
safe and accurate) alternatives like chatbots or unregulated apps and
devices. We should better fund health care to make it safer and more
privacy-protective.
Ì Policymakers should establish a universal healthcare system that
incorporates rules to enshrine and protect health privacy. We should adopt
data systems in healthcare services that bake privacy in by default, allowing
for appropriate flows of health data while prohibiting unnecessary or out-of-
context data flows.
Ì Policymakers must lower barriers for people to access health care, including
by ensuring universal internet access and improving digital literacy. When
people have reliable internet connectivity and high digital literacy, they can
better access remote care and can better understand their privacy rights.
EPIC | BEYOND HIPAA