—
DENVER
HEALTH.

— est. 1860 ——

June 13, 2025

Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS—4211-PN

P.O. Box 8016

Baltimore, MD 21244-8016.

Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Mr. Kennedy,

Thank you for the opportunity to provide information to HHS regarding the Health Technology
Ecosystem. Denver Health is a comprehensive, integrated organization that delivers preventative,
primary, specialty, and acute care services. This integration promotes continuity of care for each
patient and assures that health care is delivered in the most efficient, cost-effective manner. We
care for 33% of Denver’s population annually and one in three Denver-area children. As Colorado’s
primary safety-net institution, Denver Health has provided billions of dollars in uncompensated care
and serves as a model for other safety net institutions across the nation. Below are our answers to
the questions asked as part of the RFI.

C. Providers

This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to use
cases and workflows that involve providers. While we certainly want providers to answer
questions in this section (and in other sections) from the provider point of view, we also invite
all stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the provider workflows as appropriate.

1. Digital Health Apps

PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural
areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for their
patients?

a. Whatare the current obstacles? State agencies and their contracted service providers
are not always aware of the opportunities to leverage these new capabilities and
gravitate to older interfaces and data sharing methods. Often, this leads to
fragmentation or complete lack of interoperability between different digital products,

—
DENVER
HEALTH.

— est. 1860 ——

requiring providers to download information, manually transfer it to another platform,
and re-enter it.

PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization of the
most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality
measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these obstacles
be mitigated? The biggest obstacles are funding issues and lack of knowledge on how useful
these applications can be. The funding issues are most often related to the actual purchasing
and implementation of the technology—with organizations focusing limited financial resources
on care provision rather than technology upgrades--but in many cases the lack of funding to
support the technology is also a long-term problem with keeping up with costs of maintenance.
Providing financial incentives may help mitigate some of these issues.

PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural areas
that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage format (for
example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes, structured data
fields)? This is very important. At Denver Health, we treat many patients from both urban and
rural areas in Colorado, Wyoming, and other surrounding states. It is imperative for patient care
that all data be accessible for exchange between healthcare organizations. Interoperability
allows us to get the data we need quickly, so we can provide the best care for the patient
without un-necessary delays or the need to repeat expensive diagnostic testing that has already
been performed elsewhere but for which data is not visible.

PR-4, What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be needed for patients’
third-party digital products to have access to administrative workflows, such as auto-
populating intake forms, viewing provider information and schedules, and making and
modifying an appointment? Many of these examples are already possible in our provider
portal. CMS adding certification criteria is one way of ensuring that EHR developers create the
requested functionality.

2. Data Exchange
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health information?

a. Please provide specific examples. TEFCA provides healthcare organizations and
providers with a single on-ramp to participate in national interoperability. Provider

—
DENVER
HEALTH.

— est. 1860 ——

organizations no longer need to connect to multiple exchanges; rather, when they
connect to TEFCA they are able to get data from every QHIN. Querying data versus
pushing data (via direct messaging) is more valuable to providers as they are able to pull
the data they need, when they need it.

b. What changes would you suggest? More incentives for people to join TEFCA, and
eventually penalties for not joining, would spur better participation. We would also like
to see other purposes of use and their related SOP’s rolled out in a timely manner. These
purposes of use should first be optional, then required, over time.

c. What other options are available outside of TEFCA? Other national frameworks such as
eHealth Exchange, Carequality, and Commonwell are useful, but not as helpful as TEFCA,
as all of these alternatives are stand-alone exchanges. As a result, an organization must
connect to each one individually to exchange data with participants. There are also
regional HIE’s which are an older, antiquated solution that depends on point-to-point
interfaces to transmit data. Regional HIEs are no longer as beneficial as nation-wide
exchanges, yet many regional HIEs continue to press policymakers for financial or
regulatory support to sustain their systems, despite the fact that these are rapidly
becoming obsolete.

d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that could be
consolidated? We believe as more organizations move onto TEFCA, exchanges that do
not become QHINs will no longer be needed and will likely find a new purpose. There
will be a need for push (direct address) workflows for certain use cases, even though
pulling (querying) is usually more beneficial.

PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality, timely,
and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital product
ecosystem? I|ncentivize or penalize providers to install certified EHR software and connect to
TEFCA.

How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be mitigated for providers?
Incentive programs could help cover the cost of the software and technical support needed.

PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data
responsibilities of providers? Align programs, including the tools used to collect and report
data, the actual measures within the programs (when possible), and the timelines and reporting
periods.

—
DENVER
HEALTH.

— est. 1860 ——

a.

What would be the benefits and downsides of using Bulk FHIR data exports from EHRs
to CMS to simplify clinical quality data submissions? Can CMS reduce the burden on
providers by performing quality metrics calculations leveraging Bulk FHIR data
exports? If CMS allowed for one bulk FHIR submission to submit data for every program
(IQR, MIPS, Pl, OQR, etc.), this would help reduce the reporting burden. Currently, each
program requires unique effort. However, if each program continues to require data to
be submitted individually, we see no significant benefit for provider organizations using
Bulk FHIR data exports from EHR’s to submit quality data. The current process for quality
data submission for most programs is not overly burdensome.

In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of
providers be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed? CMS could look into
eventually plugging into the TEFCA or FHIR API framework to query data from
organizations for quality measures. Interoperability is really moving from a “push” to
“oull” methodology, which may not be ideal for quality reporting.

3. Digital Identity

PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials (for example,
CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of proprietary logins that
need to be tracked for each provider relationship? CMS should first add this requirement as a
certification criterion, so software developers make the needed updates to support this
functionality. Then, adding this requirement to a program such as MIPS or PI would encourage

providers to accept these credentials.

a.

What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set of
trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for
each provider? We would look to the EHR vendors to provide feedback on whether this
is something that they could support via patient portals. One request for HHS is to
consider how this will align with information blocking regulations, mainly in cases where
the patient cannot perform the digital identity credentials needed to access their EHR
data. Should hospitals and provider organizations have an alternative way for patients to
access their portal outside of these digital identity credentials? Healthcare organizations
would need to be assured that we would not be accused of information blocking.

—
DENVER
HEALTH.

— est. 1860 ——

PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, |ID.me, other NIST
800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs):

a. Whatare the challenges and benefits for providers? \We would save time and effort by
not having to help patients log in, perform password resets, etc. On the other hand, we
may lose the ability to help our patients gain access to their health information if
identifying information lives exclusively with patients and not within care delivery
systems, as it does today. Patients may call our help desk hoping to get support, and we
may not be able to help them like we can currently.

b. How would requiring their use improve access to health information? It would prevent
patients from having to remember multiple usernames and passwords, which may allow
them to access their information more quickly and easily. However, it is important to
note that identity verification is just one of three items needed for us to release data.
We also need to perform patient matching and receive patient authorization under
existing regulations.

c. What are the potential downsides? \t is unclear what role hospitals and provider
organizations would have when patients have issues with digital identity verification.
Would we be able to assist when they have issues, or would we have to refer patients to
an outside vendor for support accessing their EHR data?

d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a nationwide provider directory?
While there may be some overlap, we would not expect there to be much of an impact.

e. How could digital identity implementation improve provider data flow? \We would not
expect that digital identity implementation would improve provider data flow.

f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data flow? No, and we would
not recommend trying to combine FHIR addresses and identity. Identity is tied to an
individual person, regardless of any organizational affiliations. FHIR addresses are
organization specific.

PR-11. How could members of trust communities (for example, QHINs, participants and
subparticipants in TEFCA, which requires Identity Assurance Level 2 (IAL2) via Credential
Service Providers (CSPs)) better support the goals of reduced provider and patient burden
while also enhancing identity management and security? This could be accomplished by
ensuring that QHINs are performing thorough vetting of participants and subparticipants, while
also ensuring the queries performed align with the SOP for that purpose of use. It will also be

o
DENVER
HEALTH.

— est. 1860 ——

vital to allow for objections from QHIN governance councils and create and support an
escalation path when adjudication is needed. Transparency and trust are key to making TEFCA
successful.

On behalf of Denver Health, we appreciate the opportunity to provide comments. Thank you for
your consideration.

Sincerely,

fect . See

Read G. Pierce, MD

Chief Medical Officer
