Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc T +1 202 589 1000
1350 I (Eye) Street, NW, Suite 1210 ccartwr@its.jnj.com
Washington, DC 20005 USA jnj.com
February 23rd, 2026
RE: J&J Response to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Request for
Information on Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical
Care.
Dear Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr.,
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments on the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence (AI) as Part of Clinical Care. We commend the Office of the Deputy Secretary and
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP) and Office of the National Coordinator for
Health Information Technology (ONC) actions to consider input from varied stakeholders on how
to accelerate the uptake of AI technology in healthcare, foster public trust and confidence in
modern technology solutions, to reduce uncertainty that impedes AI innovation, and improve
health outcomes for patients, caregivers, and communities.
At Johnson & Johnson, our employees are driven by a passion to achieve the best version of
health for everyone, everywhere, for as long as possible. Innovating across the full spectrum of
healthcare solutions puts us in a unique leadership position today to deliver the breakthroughs
of tomorrow. Our strength in both biology and medical technology means we are accelerating
advances in care – from cell therapy to AI-assisted robotic surgery. We are using our wide range
of expertise to address healthcare challenges that can be tackled by both medical technology
and innovative medicine such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, and eye health.
How We are Using AI
At J&J, we are applying AI across our business, focusing on finding solutions to big challenges
and advancing our impact on patients. We believe AI, when used at scale, has the potential to
accelerate our ability to advance human health. AI allows us to analyze larger-than-ever data
sets in ways never before possible to find patterns and trends that are helping to transform our
innovative engine. We are using AI, leveraging de-identified data, in a multitude of ways across
our sectors:
Accelerating drug discovery: We are leveraging state-of-the-art AI/machine learning (ML)
technologies across drug discovery; from identifying novel targets that we can modulate to
combat disease, to enabling the identification of molecular starting points for those targets,
to optimizing those molecules to design and develop a drug candidate.
Speeding enrollment and research in clinical trials: We are using ML algorithms to analyze
real world health data from sources like de-identified electronic medical records, labs,
claims and imaging to broaden recruitment and identify and prioritize geographies and
healthcare organizations where more patients are being treated.
Driving precision medicine: We are applying to AI and ML to data sets – from digital images
to sound recordings – to identify novel biomarkers and clinical endpoints that can help us
develop and deliver the right medicines for the right patients at the right time.
1

Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc T +1 202 589 1000
1350 I (Eye) Street, NW, Suite 1210 ccartwr@its.jnj.com
Washington, DC 20005 USA jnj.com
Harnessing AI for electro-anatomical mapping of the heart: During catheter ablation
procedures for atrial fibrillation, it is critical for electrophysiologists to “see” inside the heart.
Our CARTO™ 3 System – the leading 3D heart mapping system – features AI to
reconstruct the left atrial anatomy of the heart. By eliminating the need for manual
contouring, the system represents a new approach to anatomy creation, improving the
efficiency of the procedure workflow.
Simplifying operative experiences for physicians: Our AI-powered VIRTUGUIDE™ software
automates patient analysis and correction to treat bony deformities of the foot and ankle.
By using AI to analyze the patient’s anatomy, this software outputs the instrument needed
to treat the specific patient and recommends a correction plan, which allows for intra-
operative simplicity, fewer instruments, and reduced surgery time.
Accelerating surgeon and care team training: Our first-of-its-kind laparoscopic surgical
simulation platform integrates augmented reality, AI-guided assessment, and tactile
feedback, to help enhance the surgical skills and training experiences of suturing for
general, gynecological, and laparoscopic surgeons.
AI-based technologies are revolutionizing healthcare and are already changing how
diseases are understood, diagnosed, and treated; how healthcare systems and
healthcare professionals (HCPs) deliver care with enhanced insights and improved
workflows; and how new healthcare solutions are developed. Safely and responsibly
harnessing AI’s potential in healthcare requires the implementation of a well
understood, agile and future-proof policy framework that encourages innovation and
research partnerships, builds a data culture that respects personal data privacy and
security, supports education and upskilling in the healthcare and regulatory workforce
and encourages global cooperation and alignment, where appropriate.
Barriers to Adoption, Trust, and Governance of AI in Clinical Care
Patients and caregivers hope that AI can improve access to timely and cost-effective
care while still offering personalized treatments without care fragmentation. On the other
hand, they are concerned with data privacy, inaccurate information/medical
recommendations, and loss of human connection. Patients want to know that their
healthcare providers are still at the helm of decisions being made.
The nuanced, context-dependent nature of clinical medicine creates barriers to AI
implementation. While AI can provide directional information, medical decision making
requires integrated and complex information. Medical decisions must account for highly
variable patient presentations, comorbidities, social determinants, and evolving
evidence, making it difficult to establish trust that AI algorithms have the appropriate
training and validation. AI systems depend on patterns of information that do not
account for nuanced clinical information. There is danger in blindly adopting AI output
without contextual considerations by the clinician.
Clinical data used to develop AI models are typically pulled from published studies and
guidelines. However, the quality of studies can vary widely, and AI models often cannot
2

Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc T +1 202 589 1000
1350 I (Eye) Street, NW, Suite 1210 ccartwr@its.jnj.com
Washington, DC 20005 USA jnj.com
discern between well conducted and validated information and may pull from poorly
conducted studies which reduces model reliability. Often, data sources are not readily
disclosed, and some AI models will hallucinate sources. This creates mistrust and
presents as a barrier to medical professionals using AI.
As data fuels AI, we need to access large enough data sets to train models. This
requires rational approaches to determining data ownership, control, and governance
structures. We must also consider the quality of the data sets: if data used to train the AI
model has limitations and does not adequately represent the target population, one
could have outputs that are not representative enough.
Risk-based and clear and predictable regulatory framework
We understand that one important barrier to private sector innovation in AI for
healthcare and its adoption and use in clinical care is regulatory uncertainty. Evolving
and inconsistent requirements for AI in healthcare surrounding validation standards and
explainability can create unclear approval pathways and investment risk, slowing
development and deployment. Greater clarity and alignment across regulatory
frameworks can help unlock innovation and support responsible scaling of AI in
healthcare.
Traditional AI has been incorporated into medical devices for three decades. AI-driven
medical devices are already highly regulated both in pre and post market and the
existing regulatory requirements are appropriate for these devices. Any use of third-
party certification will lead to redundant activities and documentation and may lead to
disclosure of commercial confidential information and inappropriate release of private
healthcare data.
Consideration should be given to identifying if there are any specific updates to the FDA
regulatory processes that would be appropriate to apply to generative or agentic AI.
These evidence standards should be specific to the nature of the use case for AI and
not the model itself.
The CMS HTI-11 rule has been interpreted to apply to products regulated as medical
devices if its training data are Electronic Health Records. Clarification on the scope of
the rule would ensure that medical device manufacturers understand all the
requirements that apply to their AI-driven medical devices.
We would welcome AI evaluation methods which ultimately lead to AI being deployed in
ways which are helpful for healthcare professionals and beneficial to the patients they
serve. These AI evaluation methods may include pre- and post-deployment testing and
other robustness measures, as they may clarify how a non-medical device AI may
perform in practice, an important consideration for healthcare providers who may be
1 h#ps://healthit.gov/regula3ons/h3-rules/h3-1-final-rule/
3

Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc T +1 202 589 1000
1350 I (Eye) Street, NW, Suite 1210 ccartwr@its.jnj.com
Washington, DC 20005 USA jnj.com
hesitant to use AI otherwise. One way HHS could support these processes would be
through incentives, such as grants or prize competitions.
AI in clinical care may lead to an increased level of sophistication for privacy and
security programs, and the intersection of AI and liability can be unclear. There is a lack
of clarity on who bears responsibility when AI tools indirectly cause harm. Indirect harm
may be caused by algorithmic errors, bias-related harms, or failures in continuous
learning of the AI system. HHS should help address not only reducing the probability of
harm through guidance but also providing direction on who bears responsibility.
Safeguarding Data Privacy
Another key element for safe, ethical, and transparent AI use is privacy. We operate in a
highly regulated industry where we use a variety of types of data, including
administrative and claims data, clinical data, genomic data, patient-generated data,
surgical video, and social determinants of health data that move through a variety of
transmission networks. This data is essential to continued innovation, discovery,
evaluation, and speed for the delivery of healthcare products and services to patients
and consumers.
We support adoption of a comprehensive national privacy law and associated standards
to help ensure a more consumer- and patient- friendly approach to managing personal
information while ensuring consistent privacy protection, allowing a greater flow of data,
and maintaining adequate protections. A federal law would help reduce variability across
multiple governments and government agencies, consequently reducing regulatory
costs and increasing competitiveness to attract investments.
Enhanced Interoperability and Data Standards
We would welcome promoting and incentivizing enhanced interoperability across
electronic health records (EHR) through the use of common data models and standards
such as Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR). Promoting the adoption of
common data models enables larger, more diverse data sets for model training and
validation of AI. In turn, this enablement can accelerate AI development across the
healthcare ecosystem, ultimately driving more efficient and better healthcare outcomes,
while expanding the global market reach of U.S. healthcare and technology companies.
Global data standards and interoperability of data and electronic health records are key
to fuel research and innovation, thus enhancing patient outcomes. Global standards for
data quality would contribute to the dual beneficial outcome of the enhancement of AI
models through access to more data for training purposes, and the interoperability of
electronic health record systems increasing data availability for R&D and improving
patient outcomes, such as disease predictability and personalized treatment. This will
broaden patients’ access to treatment and further enhance AI utilized in clinical care,
increasing market opportunities and patient outcomes.
4

Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc T +1 202 589 1000
1350 I (Eye) Street, NW, Suite 1210 ccartwr@its.jnj.com
Washington, DC 20005 USA jnj.com
Research Priorities to Accelerate Responsible AI Adoption
We believe HHS should work to prioritize and fund research on the impact of AI on
patient care, patient safety, and clinician knowledge. It is unknown how the potential for
dependency on AI for medical students and other healthcare providers in training will
impact the competency of those individuals. Research is needed to better understand
new conjecture to promote adoption or potential guardrails for use of AI in academic
and clinical practice.
We would welcome HHS prioritizing AI research that delivers clear, clinically meaningful
explanations at the point of care, paired alongside continuous real-world performance
monitoring to verify AI remains consistent in the quality of its performance after
deployment. Together, these capabilities can strengthen clinician trust and accelerate
adoption of AI into routine clinical practice.
Additionally, HHS should actively catalyze research on privacy-enhancing technologies
(PETs), including federated learning, secure multi-party computation, encryption, and
high-quality synthetic data, by funding targeted grants, CRADAs (cooperative research
and development agreements), and prize competitions, creating de-identified
benchmark datasets and interoperable standards, and developing clear evaluation
frameworks and metrics that quantify utility/privacy tradeoffs. By sponsoring pilot
implementations in real-world health systems, issuing guidance on acceptable risk
thresholds and documentation expectations, and supporting workforce training to
operationalize PETs in clinical workflows, HHS can both lower adoption barriers and
ensure that research outputs are reproducible, interoperable, and aligned with patient
privacy, public trust, and continued innovation.
Modernizing Payment Systems and Market Access for AI in Clinical Care
Ensuring payor coverage of AI-powered and enabled health technologies is a challenge
given the complexity of existing healthcare payment systems, the divergence of
intellectual property policies, and the lack of standardized, trustworthy, and transparent
testing of AI models. To ensure smooth adoption and coverage of new technologies in
various healthcare systems across markets, we must first ensure the quality, accuracy,
reliability, transparency, and representativeness of data for AI models. It is necessary to
establish - where they do not already exist - clear evidence and data requirements for
lifecycle management of AI-enabled health technologies.
Where appropriate, create public and private sandboxes for developers and deployers
to test and certify their solutions in a controlled environment, such as on AI model
performance, health outcomes, data accuracy, and representativeness in AI models.
5

Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc T +1 202 589 1000
1350 I (Eye) Street, NW, Suite 1210 ccartwr@its.jnj.com
Washington, DC 20005 USA jnj.com
***
We recognize the powerful promise of AI in healthcare, and we know this timely effort requires
collaboration and partnership. We value our role as an innovator in healthcare, contributing new
ideas, solutions, technology, partnerships, and perspectives on AI policy.
J&J looks forward to serving as a resource and providing additional thoughts and contributing to
efforts that ensure AI is ethically, safely, and efficiently researched, developed and integrated
into our healthcare system and our society. If you have any questions or if we can provide any
assistance on issues related to healthcare, please e-mail Carla Cartwright at
ccartwr@its.jnj.com.
Sincerely,
Carla Cartwright
Vice President, Global Digital &
Regulatory Policy
6