February 23, 2026
Response from Wolters Kluwer to HHS’ Request for Information on
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence in Clinical Care
Below is Wolters Kluwer’s response to the Department of Health and Human Services’
Request for Information (RFI) entitled Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13). We appreciate the opportunity to share
our views.
As way of background, Wolters Kluwer is a leading global provider of clinical
technology and evidence-based solutions that assist effective decision-making and outcomes
across the healthcare continuum. Key solutions include UpToDate®, UpToDate® Lexidrug™,
UpToDate® Patient Engagement, Medi-Span®, Sentri7®, Lippincott® Solutions, Ovid®, and
Health Language®. Wolters Kluwer had annual revenue in 2024 of $6.4 billion.
Summary of Our Policy Recommendations
To help accelerate the adoption of artificial intelligence (AI) in clinical care, HHS should
define a regulatory policy framework that focuses on the following principles:
1) FDA should focus its active regulatory enforcement on AI-enabled medical devices
that are fully “agentic,” and impact patient care without human intervention;
2) FDA should exercise enforcement discretion for any AI-enabled medical devices
featuring ‘human-in-the-loop’ design;
3) HHS should define transparency and disclosure standards that are well-understood,
predictable and proportionate to substantial risks to patients;
4) Existing copyright laws and protections for medical content used to develop AI
solutions supporting clinical care should continue to be enforced;
5) Existing state medical malpractice laws that seek to optimize the safe practice of
medicine should be maintained.
Discussion
In the RFI, HHS notes that it seeks to “establish a regulatory posture on AI that is well
understood, predictable, and proportionate to any risks presented to enable rapid innovation
while protecting patients and the confidentiality of their identifiable health information and
maintaining public trust.” We strongly agree with these overarching goals, particularly in
creating a regulatory framework that is predictable and easy to understand for developers, and
fosters trust among clinicians and medical professionals.
To strike the appropriate balance between rewarding innovation for AI solutions while
also ensuring such solutions are effective and safe for patients, we recommend FDA focus its
active regulatory oversight on AI-enabled device software functions that pose the highest risk to
patient safety. In our view, these are functions that are fully “agentic,” meaning they can act
autonomously, making care decisions and/or acting without human intervention.

Though the deployment of agentic functions can add significant value and efficiency to
the clinical workflow, freeing up trained human professionals to address more complex patients,
they also pose significant threats to patient safety if the software does not perform as designed.
Remaining AI-enabled device software functions that are non-agentic, and thus incapable of
acting independently of human intervention, would still technically remain under FDA’s
regulatory authority, but be subject to enforcement discretion. FDA could provide guidance that
defines the terms of such discretion. The software’s design would require a trained human
intermediary to make a clinical decision based on their experience and judgment, with the
software itself having no agentic capability.
We were gratified to hear FDA Commissioner Marty Makary, in addressing the
Consumer Electronics Show in early January, appear to endorse such an approach. In his
remarks, Dr. Makary indicated that the Agency’s focus going forward will be to “apply
regulatory standards” to AI-enabled solutions that are “being used to trigger, automatically,
medical interventions.” Focusing FDA on AI-enabled functions that are fully agentic and
autonomous also aligns with the Agency’s historical regulation of medical devices that operate
independent of human intervention.
Dr. Makary also emphasized the need for FDA to avoid paternalism and “trust clinicians
to do what’s right for their patients.” Underscoring the importance of human-in-the-loop design,
the Commissioner added that FDA should trust doctors to use what information they find useful
in making their medical decision, for which they bear ultimate responsibility.
Simplifying the regulatory framework is only part of the challenge. Clinicians and other
medical professionals will be the principal actors in driving adoption of AI tools at the point of
care, but it has been our experience that they will not use solutions they do not trust. Such trust
can only be earned with appropriate transparency and disclosure concerning the AI-enabled
solution.
The need for trust was starkly illustrated by a survey conducted in late 2024 by Wolters
Kluwer, which found that 40% of the U.S. physicians polled were ready to use generative AI
(GenAI) when interacting with patients at the point-of-care. The findings reflected a rapid
acceptance of the new technology more broadly, with 68% saying they had recently changed
their views and were more likely to think that GenAI would be beneficial to healthcare.
However, the survey also revealed that physicians will not blindly follow GenAI
recommendations and that they would be selective when evaluating and implementing GenAI
tools. For example, before relying on GenAI tools for assistance in clinical decision-making,
91% of respondents indicated they would need to know that GenAI-sourced materials were
created by doctors and medical experts. Similarly, 89% reported they would require vendors to
be transparent about where information came from, who created it, and how it was sourced. If
these survey results are indicative of the wider provider community, and we believe they are,

clinicians will not use GenAI-enabled tools at the point of care unless they understand how such
solutions were developed and trust their output.
At the time of this writing, HHS is sending conflicting signals about the types of
disclosures it will require AI developers to make, with different requirements being issued or
proposed by FDA and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy. For example, the draft
HTI-5 rule issued in December proposes to scale back and align disclosures for evidence-based
and predictive decision support interventions, with many of the latter considered regulated
devices. Other FDA guidance spells out labeling recommendations for AI-enabled device
software functions, but the Agency has yet to specify similar recommendations for devices using
GenAI. The recently revised Final Guidance on Clinical Decision Support Software provides
labeling recommendations for certain CDS solutions that will be given enforcement discretion,
some of which may be enabled by AI.
Given this, we recommend HHS provide clarity as to the types of information that
developers of AI solutions used at the point of care should disclose to medical professionals and
end users. At a minimum, clinicians should have access to information that explains the
provenance of any care recommendations, how such recommendations were developed, and by
whom, and any substantial risks to patients associated with relying on the recommendation.
Our responses to specific RFI questions follow:
1) What HHS regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your
ability to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and
applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
We previously commented to HHS and FDA on the Agency’s September 2022 Final
Guidance entitled Clinical Decision Support Software (FDA-2017-D-6569), which provided
FDA’s interpretation of statutory language included in the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016 that
exempted low-risk CDS software from FDA’s regulatory scope.
We commend FDA for recently issuing a revised Final Guidance granting enforcement
discretion to decision support software that issues a single clinically appropriate care
recommendation. We also strongly support the Agency’s view that the level of software
automation is a critical factor that should be considered in determining whether the health care
professional has had sufficient opportunity to independently review the basis for the care
recommendation.
However, we continue to be concerned that FDA will consider the time-critical nature of
medical decision as a factor to determine whether a software solution should be regulated. As we
have pointed out in previous comments, the 21st Century Cures Act does not authorize FDA to
consider time-sensitivity in medical decision-making as a criterion in defining which CDS
software would remain under the Agency’s regulatory purview. Rather, Congress clearly
indicated that the developer’s design or “intended use” of the software should control.

Moreover, in practice, identifying time-critical decisions is not as clear as it might seem
due to numerous factors, including the patient, their presentation, and the setting in which
treatment is being delivered. For example, the management of a patient with gastrointestinal
bleeding may be emergent if the patient is severely bleeding and is in shock, whereas it may be
less urgent if the patient had a single episode of bleeding an hour earlier and is hemodynamically
stable. Thus, given the context-specific nature of time-critical decisions, we believe its use as a
factor to determine which CDS software should be regulated is impracticable, unfeasible, and
beyond the scope of FDA’s statutory authority.
While FDA’s recent clarification on CDS that provides a single recommendation is
welcome, we fear FDA’s continued use of time-criticality will continue to stifle new products
and deprive providers and patients of enhanced CDS solutions that can improve health outcomes
and lower costs.
We therefore recommend FDA adopt a simpler regulatory approach to CDS software that
focuses solely on the software’s level of automation, with CDS that is designed to trigger care
interventions without a human intermediary being subject to FDA oversight. We note this focus
on automation aligns with our earlier recommendation that FDA’s regulatory oversight of all AI-
enabled devices should focus on software that is “agentic,” capable of acting without human
intervention.
2) For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise
novel legal and implementation issues that challenge existing governance and
accountability structures (e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and
security). What novel legal and implementation issues exist and what role, if any,
should HHS play to help address them?
While we appreciate HHS’ implied distinction in the question between medical devices
and non-medical devices, our response addresses two important legal issues that apply to both.
Though not within HHS’ regulatory purview, we feel compelled to raise the issue of
copyright protection and the continued enforcement of federal copyright laws. Copyright and
AI are commonly discussed in the context of the creative arts, but it also applies to clinical
content such as care guidelines, published medical research or patient information leaflets. Such
material can be used by AI developers to train and/or test AI-enabled software solutions used in
clinical care to gauge alignment with evidence-based care. Per existing law, before developers
can use copyrighted content for creating their AI solutions, permission must first be obtained
from the content creator.
Enforcement of existing copyright protections for clinical content should be maintained.
Such protections enable clinical content creators to maintain a single, authoritative version,
preventing unauthorized edits, distortions or selective quoting. Even small alterations to medical
content can introduce clinical risk, misinterpretation or error, putting patients at risk.
Empowering the authors of clinical guidelines to control updated versions ensures the continued
scientific and medical integrity of the content.

Producing scientifically grounded medical research, practice guidelines or patient
information leaflets also requires significant upfront investment in time, resources and costs.
Copyright protection not only enables creators to recoup their upfront costs, it encourages future
investment in new research, and in follow-on content that applies such research and findings to
day-to-day clinical care.
The second legal issue is the call by some that clinicians be given a shield from legal
liability if a patient was harmed when AI was used in their care. We strongly disagree.
Medicare professionals must continue to be responsible for the care they provide. Shielding them
from such responsibility could put patient safety at risk, sow distrust among patients and
undermine the professional’s duty of care. HHS should therefore continue to support existing
state tort laws that promote the safe practice of medicine, and clinicians, hospital and health
systems using AI-enabled software to assist in clinical decision-making should continue to be
subject to state medical malpractice laws.
We appreciate the opportunity to comment. If HHS staff have questions or would like to
discuss our responses in more detail, please contact Bob Hussey at bob@bobhussey.com who
can arrange a discussion with the appropriate Wolters Kluwer staff.