June 16, 2025
[Submitted electronically to www.regulations.gov]
Stephanie Carlton
Deputy Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS)
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244-1850
Steven Posnack
Acting Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Acting National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
200 Independence Ave SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC; RIN 0938-AV68)
Dear Deputy Administrator Carlton and Acting Assistant Secretary Posnack,
The American Pharmacists Association (APhA) appreciates the opportunity to provide
comments to CMS, the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC), and the Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) regarding its request for information, “Health Technology
Ecosystem.” APhA shares HHS’s desire to increase data availability to all of a patient's health
care providers to achieve better patient health outcomes. As such, APhA encourages CMS,
ASTP/ONC, and HHS to consider the vital role that pharmacists have in a patient’s overall
health, work towards promoting the interoperability of electronic health information (EHI) with
pharmacies and pharmacists, and recognize pharmacists as health care providers to prevent
information-blocking.
APhA is the largest association of pharmacists in the United States, advancing the entire
pharmacy profession. APhA represents pharmacists, scientists, student pharmacists, and
pharmacy technicians in all practice settings, including but not limited to community
pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care facilities, specialty pharmacies, community health centers,
physician offices, ambulatory clinics, managed care organizations, hospice settings, and
government facilities. Our members strive to improve medication use, advance patient care,
and enhance public health.

Patient and Caregivers
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information in
one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)?
Patients often lack access to all their health information in a single medical record or patient
portal. A study found that “half of individuals had more than one online medical record or
patient portal with different organization/provider types.”1 Additionally, only 23% of
individuals report that they have pharmacy online medical records or portals.2 Given the
multiple patient portals or records providers are using and the underutilization of pharmacy
online medical records and portals, it is not surprising that studies show that it is common for
medication lists within these sources to be inaccurate.3 One study highlighted that patients
reported that 43% of the medications within their electronic health record were inaccurate,
noting that 29% of the medications had been stopped and 14% had been changed.4 These errors
and inconsistencies can lead to medication errors, adverse drug events, and increased health
care costs. As such, APhA supports mechanisms and processes that establish secure, portable,
and interoperable electronic health care records that are accessible to pharmacists and
interoperable with every pharmacy’s medical records to ensure patients have the most accurate
depiction of their current medication regimen, vaccination history, and clinical patient notes
from the direct patient care services and interventions provided by the patient’s personal
pharmacist. Not only will this information enable patients to make better decisions regarding
their health, but it will also provide health care providers with a more comprehensive picture of
the patient’s current care, enabling them to make more personalized medical decisions.
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or
their caregivers or both?
Patients want access to all their health data in one central location, as it will ease the burden of
managing multiple patient accounts or portals and provide the most comprehensive assessment
of their current health. One thing that is often inaccurate or missing from a patient’s medical
1 Individuals’ Access and Use of Patient Portals and Smartphone Health Apps, 2022, Assistant Secretary for
Technology Policy (Oct. 2023). Available at: https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/2023-
10/DB69_IndividualsAccess-UsePatientPortals_508.pdf.
2 Id. Available at: https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/2023-10/DB69_IndividualsAccess-
UsePatientPortals_508.pdf.
3 Maria Staroselsky, et al., An Effort to Improve Electronic Health Record Medication List Accuracy Between
Visits: Patients’ and Physicians’ Response, 77 International Journal of Medical Informatics 153 (2008).
Available at:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1386505607000470#:~:text=This%20study%20confir
ms%20earlier%20reports,and%2014%25%20having%20been%20changed.
4 Id. Available at:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1386505607000470#:~:text=This%20study%20confir
ms%20earlier%20reports,and%2014%25%20having%20been%20changed.
2

record is an accurate medication list. There are numerous reasons why a patient’s medication
list is prone to errors and inaccuracies, including patients visiting multiple providers and
pharmacies for care and the inability or difficulty of each of these providers to access electronic
health records from each other. As most patients know, one of the first questions a health care
provider will ask is, “What medications are you currently taking?” before starting the patient on
new medication for their current ailments. Having this medication list is also vital for caregivers
who may be caring for a loved one who cannot remember the names or doses of the
medications they need to manage their conditions. When this list is inaccurate or providers
cannot obtain the most up-to-date list, patients will be at greater risk of medication errors,
adverse drug events, and increased health care costs. Accordingly, APhA stresses the
importance of technologies and guidelines that establish secure, portable, and interoperable
electronic patient health records, including pharmacist and pharmacy medical records, to
provide patients and the rest of their health care team with an up-to-date picture of the patient's
medication regimen.
Further, the inclusion of pharmacy medical records into the patient's electronic health record is
essential, as pharmacists nationwide are providing increasingly more direct patient care
services and interventions that patients want records of and that other health care providers
should be aware of when holistically assessing the patient. This point is further discussed in PR-
3.
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking
complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would
increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange?
ASTP/ONC’s Information Blocking Portal allows the public to submit information-blocking
complaints. Between April 5, 2021, and May 31, 2025, the portal received 1,321 submissions,
over half of which came from patients.5 Patients aware that an entity is interfering with or
preventing the sharing of their EHI should be able to utilize this portal to report their concerns.
Additional education on the portal and how to identify information blocking may be necessary
for more patients to use it. However, the information provided should give ASTP/ONC an
insight into specific instances of information blocking and a better understanding of the current
landscape of information blocking.
Providers
PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural
areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage format
(for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes, structured data
fields)? Please address all of the following: (a) Current challenges in accessing different data
5 Information Blocking Claims: By the Numbers, Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (May 2025).
Available at: https://www.healthit.gov/data/quickstats/information-blocking-claims-numbers#2.
3

formats; (b) Impact on patient care quality; (c) Technical barriers to full data accessibility; (d)
Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable; (e) Priority level
compared to other interoperability needs.
No matter where or in what setting patient care is delivered, those health care professionals
providing the care and patients receiving the care want access to comprehensive health records
and data. Currently, many pharmacists have limited access to a patient’s full electronic health
record at the pharmacy, which requires them to request access to records, labs, and other
relevant information, causing significant disruptions in workflow and delays in care. Despite
these challenges, pharmacists make meaningful interventions to patient medication regimens
and offer direct patient care services daily under their state's scope of practice. Depending on
the state, pharmacists can provide smoking cessation counseling, health and wellness
screenings, immunizations, and various other services related to preventive care, disease state
management, and medication management. Additionally, pharmacists are permitted to
prescribe buprenorphine, naloxone, HIV PrEP and PEP, hormonal contraceptives, and oral
antivirals in numerous states across the country. The breadth of care that pharmacists provide is
vital to meeting unmet patient health care needs, especially in underserved and rural
communities. As such, pharmacists administering these services and other health care providers
caring for these patients in subsequent encounters need access to comprehensive electronic
patient health records, including medical and pharmacy records. Accordingly, APhA
encourages CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS to promote mechanisms that enhance the
interoperability of electronic health information to pharmacists and pharmacies to enable more
coordinated patient care. APhA urges CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS to recognize pharmacists as
health care providers for information-blocking purposes to help effectuate this change, as the
conduct of other health care providers and health IT developers, exchanges, and networks will
not change without a push (i.e., monetary penalties and disincentives for violations). These
points are further discussed in PR-6.
Accessing different data formats and ensuring full data accessibility may present challenges and
technical barriers that may be costly to overcome initially. However, a stepwise approach that
incentivizes health care practitioners and organizations to comply with data formats and
protocols that guarantee full data accessibility could accelerate the implementation of such
procedures. APhA supports a stepwise approach that incentivizes entities that can swiftly adopt
technologies, policies, and procedures that ensure full data accessibility to pharmacies and
pharmacists. In time, these data formats and policies would become second nature, and patients
and providers would benefit from accessing all relevant patient data in one place.
Ensuring pharmacies and pharmacists have access to patient electronic health records should be
a top priority for CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS compared to other interoperability needs. The
United States is facing a shortage of primary care providers, which is only expected to worsen.6
6 State of the Primary Care Workforce, 2024, HRSA Health Workforce (Nov. 2024). Available at:
https://bhw.hrsa.gov/sites/default/files/bureau-health-workforce/state-of-the-primary-care-workforce-
report-2024.pdf.
4

The National Center for Health Workforce Analysis estimates that by 2037, there will be a
shortage of 87,150 full-time equivalent primary physicians.7 Further, they noted that this
shortage will be “particularly acute in nonmetro areas.”8 Pharmacists in both urban and rural
areas are in a prime position to help alleviate this shortage, given their extensive training and
expertise, and patient access, as almost 90% of Americans live within 5 miles of a community
pharmacy.9 Pharmacists are already helping bridge the gap in health care disparities by offering
the many direct patient care services discussed above. To help ensure that the inability to share
electronic health records among all of a patient’s health care providers does not play a
contributing factor in limiting access to health care provided by pharmacists at all sites of care,
CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS should prioritize interoperability of pharmacies and pharmacists
with other health care systems.
It is also important to note that many patients see their pharmacy as their “medical home.” This
is due to various reasons, including the fact that pharmacists are accessible without an
appointment. Americans today struggle to find and book appointments with primary care
physicians, resulting in patients seeking out the help of pharmacists. In addition to helping
patients alleviate minor ailments by selecting over-the-counter medications, pharmacists can
also prescribe certain medications depending on the state where they practice. Thus, enhanced
interoperability, which includes sharing EHI with pharmacies and pharmacists and pharmacy
records with other health care providers, is necessary for the coordination of care.
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health information?
In October 2024, APhA commented on ONC's proposed rule, “Health Data, Technology, and
Interoperability: Patient Engagement, Information Sharing, and Public Health Interoperability.”
Within this proposed rule, ONC moved to incorporate the Public Health Service Act (PHSA)
section 3000 definition of “pharmacist” into the definition of “health care provider” for
information-blocking purposes. APhA “commend[ed] ONC for taking steps to enhance the
interoperability of EHI amongst health care providers” and “support[ed] pharmacists being
recognized as providers in relation to information-blocking regulations discussed in the
proposed rule as long as pharmacists also have access to EHI to ensure the delivery of
pharmacist-provided patient care services [emphasis added].”10 APhA also requested ONC to
7 Id. Available at: https://bhw.hrsa.gov/sites/default/files/bureau-health-workforce/state-of-the-primary-
care-workforce-report-2024.pdf.
8 Id. Available at: https://bhw.hrsa.gov/sites/default/files/bureau-health-workforce/state-of-the-primary-
care-workforce-report-2024.pdf.
9 Lucas A. Berenbrok, et al., Access to Community Pharmacies: A Nationwide Geographic Information Systems
Cross-Sectional Analysis, 62 Journal of the American Pharmacists Association 1816 (2022). Available at:
https://www.japha.org/action/showPdf?pii=S1544-3191%2822%2900233-3.
10 APhA Comments on HTI-2 Proposed Rule, American Pharmacists Association (Oct. 4, 2024). Available at:
https://s3.amazonaws.com/cdn.pharmacist.com/CDN/PDFS/APhA%20Comments%20on%20HTI2%20Pro
posed%20Rule.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAQNYDT252YKJO7IYX&Expires=1749662719&Signature=F3G
guTRlp8aYKZT6AMC3LjQOd98%3D.
5

require other health care providers and developers of health IT certified under the final rules to
be prohibited from information blocking EHI to pharmacists and penalize developers for doing
so. APhA reiterates these points to CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS within this request for
information, as it is urgent that pharmacists gain real-time access to essential electronic health
information of their patients because information blocking causes delays in patient care and
prevents health care providers from having a complete picture of the patient’s health, which can
lead to inefficient and ineffective care.
PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information blocking
exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subparts B through D) to
further the access, exchange, and use of electronic health information (EHI) and to promote
market competition?
Information blocking can cause delayed care, inappropriate treatments, duplicate care,
fragmented care, and increased health care costs.11 APhA encourages ASTP/ONC to remove or
revise any exceptions or conditions that make it easier for other entities to not share EHI with
pharmacists and pharmacies. Removing and revising such conditions or exceptions will ensure
that comprehensive EHI is more easily shared once pharmacists are recognized as health care
providers for information-blocking purposes.
PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(3)), without a
current information blocking disincentive established by CMS, what would be the most
effective disincentive for that category of provider?
As stated above, information blocking can lead to poor patient care and increased health care
costs. Accordingly, those who engage in information-blocking practices should be subject to the
disincentives established by CMS. While APhA does not advocate for creating disincentives for
additional providers, it does encourage CMS to ensure that disincentives are appropriately
given to those who interfere with the access and exchange of EHI. In the interim, APhA asks
CMS and ASTP/ONC not to create disincentives for pharmacies until requirements and criteria
for interoperability in pharmacies have been established. This aligns with CMS’s and
ASTP/ONC’s current policies, as only those participants in the Medicare EHR Incentive
Program, which pharmacists are not, can be subject to disincentives for information blocking.
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance or
negatively impact data exchange?
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal allows health care providers to report claims of
information blocking. Of the 1,321 claims submitted between April 5, 2021, and May 31, 2025,
11 Jay Anders, HHS’s Information Blocking Disincentives are a Necessary Step Toward Better Patient Care,
MedCity News (Aug. 12, 2024). Available at: https://medcitynews.com/2024/08/hhss-information-
blocking-disincentives-are-a-necessary-step-toward-better-patient-care/.
6

only 160 were submitted by health care providers. Educating health care providers about the
signs and risks of information blocking and how to use the Information Blocking Portal may
provide ASTP/ONC with greater insight into the amount of information blocking currently
occurring. APhA encourages ASTP/ONC to provide educational resources and FAQs related to
the Information Blocking Portal that APhA can then share with the nation’s over 300,000
pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, and student pharmacists.
Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI (United States Core Data for Interoperability) improved
interoperability and exchange and what are its limitations?
USCDI provides pharmacists with a standardized set of data elements for exchanging EHI,
which may assist participating pharmacists who complete medication reconciliations and work
on patient continuity of care. APhA notes that USCDI v4 includes “care team members,”
“clinical notes,” and “facility information,” which further supports interoperability of and
pharmacist access to electronic health records by technology vendors, as pharmacists must have
access to EHI from other providers to coordinate and implement comprehensive patient care
plans and to enter in their “clinical notes,” which is vital as “care team members.”12
APhA appreciates the opportunity to provide CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS with additional
insight into the role of pharmacists and their need for greater access to EHI. APhA recommends
that CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS collaborate to promote interoperability across all patient care
sites, including pharmacies, so patients and other health care professionals can access records of
the meaningful interventions and care pharmacists provide. Further, APhA urges CMS,
ASTP/ONC, and HHS to recognize pharmacists as health care providers for information-
blocking purposes to ensure a safe continuum of patient care services that pharmacists and
other health care professionals provide. If you have any questions or would like to meet with
APhA to discuss our comments, please contact Corey Whetzel, APhA’s Senior Manager,
Regulatory Affairs, at cwhetzel@aphanet.org.
Sincerely,
Michael Baxter
Vice President, Government Affairs
12 United States Core Data for Interoperability, Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology (Mar. 2025). Available at: https://www.healthit.gov/isp/sites/isp/files/2023-10/USCDI-
Version-4-October-2023-Errata-Final.pdf.
7