June 13, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
On behalf of Dr. Scott Rifkin, please accept the following questions and answers in regard to
Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CMS-
0042-NC, RIN 0938-AV68 – Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem. We have
included the question (italicized) followed by the comment.
What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other
technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical
data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
Valuable data includes, but not limited to: point of care, EMAR, scanned documents, wound
care, progress notes, therapy, and use of restraints. At a minimum this information should be
made available to patients and health care providers by the Electronic Medical Record (EMR)
company. Unfortunately, we have seen a pattern of behavior where some EMR companies
exercise ownership over the patient’s data and to monetize that data. The patient’s chart, and the
data within, belongs to the patient. The patient, whether individually or through representatives,
should have full discretion as to who can and cannot access the data. That discretion should not
belong to or be circumscribed by the EMR company, which hosts the data. The EMR company
should not be able to place limitations on which healthcare team members can access what
information, how the healthcare team members access the information or what information
within patient’s medical record is accessible.
What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest value,
and why?
Two other potential sources of data that would be of great value would include Health
Information Exchange (HIE) data and Admission, Discharge, and Transfer (ADT) data. Both of
these sources of data would allow for and enhance the ability of a medical team to better
coordinate care. Additionally, this would allow for the identification of a patient’s location for
the care team to better coordinate care. Other sources of data that would be of great value would
include regional or national summary data for comparing geographic and/or demographic
statistical information.
What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability and
integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research
and generation of actionable evidence?
The real opportunity exists by making all data available and standardized. The data is available
in the EMR database, but the most significant challenge is access to that data through the EMR

company. This is particularly difficult in situations where the EMR company acts as if the data
belongs to it and not the patient. EMR companies are erecting roadblocks and hiding behind the
Exceptions to the Cures Act in ways that were never intended by the legislation. (See Real Time
Medical Systems, Inc v PointClickCare Technologies, Inc.; Intus Care, Inc. v. RTZ Assoc., Inc.;
Meherg v. Rush University Medical Center, et al.; Palo Verde Healthcare Dist. v. Altera Digital
Health, Inc., et al; Particle Health v. Epic. ). The data belongs to patient. The EMR company
and the online medical record is simply a modern version of the old paper chart. True
interoperability permits creative healthcare experts’ access to all the data to improve the overall
quality of care and coordination.
What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today?
Electronic Medical Record (EMR) companies do not implement standards. More often than not,
they fail or don’t share the data at all. Additionally, some EMR companies use a proprietary
method and format that make it virtually impossible to use the data.
How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient access to
health information in the real world?
The more accomplished and successful Health Information Exchanges (HIE) in this country,
CRISP (Maryland) for example, have coordinated with multiple sources of data including health
systems, insurers, and relevant applications that allow the end user to have access to the data on a
single platform. For example, CRISP has a partnership in Maryland with a decision support and
data mining platform that brings data and analysis to the fingertips of nurses and doctors taking
care of patients in nursing homes. The results of the program have been a marked decrease in
hospital admissions among nursing home patients. A study of this approach was done by the
University of Pennsylvania (See American Journal of Managed Care. 2024;30 - Spec Issue No.
6)
How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?
Data is only valuable if it is being used. The enemy of the good is the perfect. There is clear
evidence to suggest that coordinated data at the fingertips of the medical team can reduce
admissions, costs, and medical complications. (See American Journal of Managed Care. 2024;30
- Spec Issue No. 6)
Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe should be
propagated across markets?
The better more productive Health Information Exchanges (HIE), CRISP for example, have
coordinated with multiple sources of data including health systems, insurers, and relevant
applications that allow the end user to access the data on a single platform. For example, CRISP
has a partnership in Maryland with a decision support and data mining platform that brings data
and analysis services to the fingertips of nurses and doctors taking care of patients in nursing
homes. The results of the program have been a marked decrease in hospital admissions among

nursing home patients. A study of this approach was done by the University of Pennsylvania
(CITE HERE)
What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities facilitating data exchange and broader
frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health information networks, TEFCA,
private exchange networks, etc.)?
The strong and productive Health Information Exchanges (HIE) have a clear role in bringing
together data or normalized data to the fingertips of the health care team and to allow for
coordination of care. Unfortunately, many of the HIEs are not very strong nor are they
performing in this manner. CRISP (Maryland) and MiHIN (Michigan) are examples of effective
HIEs. Rules and incentives for HIEs should be implemented to mimic these two examples or
encourage consolidation into better performing organizations.
What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients and caregivers that, if
addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate barriers to competition
among providers or both?
If the true purpose is to create a system that works for the health care team and results in better
patient outcomes, there is a need for a coordinated platform that allows the team to work
cooperatively and to look for medical issues early in the process as opposed to later. This has
been shown, at least in the nursing home setting, to markedly reduce hospitalizations.
How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would increasing
reporting of complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange?
The Office of the National Coordinator (ONC) has received many complaints over the years and
to the best of our knowledge, none have been followed up on or investigated. In fact, our
organization made a complaint on January 22, 2024 and we have had no progress on that
complaint.
It is common knowledge in the industry that the ONC is the place where complaints go to die.
We are hopeful with new leadership and structure at the ONC that there will be a more proactive
and aggressive stance taken on these types of issues and that responses and/or investigations will
be generated.
Additionally, CMS should market this ability (of submitting information blocking complaints),
and there needs to be a traceable ticket with a timeline that is followed for resolution with real,
impactful penalties for non-compliance.
Increasing reporting of complaints would ultimately advance and positively impact the data
exchange, as this would ultimately force compliance and prevent bad actors from hiding behind
“technology issues” when they just want to monopolize the data for themselves. However,
reporting is only one part. Without investigations and enforcement actions, complaints are
worthless.

Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information blocking exceptions or
conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subparts B through D) to further the access,
exchange, and use of electronic health information (EHI) and to promote market competition?
Yes, ONC should consider removing or revising the Exceptions and/or conditions that are
included in the Exceptions process. As currently worded, EMR companies can exploit the
Exceptions and use them as a shield, including to protect themselves from competitors. If the
EMR company hosts data and the request for access is made consistent with the patient approved
authorization, then the EMR company should not be permitted to restrict the data set to some
lesser included data set simply because the EMR company has an agenda that is not patient-
centric. For example, the Security Exception should not be used to thwart access by a member
of the healthcare team simply because that member is a competitor of the EMR company or
offers a competing product to a subsidiary or related party of the EMR company. As further
example, the Manner Exception should not be used to restrict access to a patient’s medical
record—it is a manner exception not content exception (of which there no longer is one), yet an
EMR company has used that Exception to refuse to provide all of the patient’s medical record
arguing that it only has to provide content required by USCDI v1 because it could not reach an
agreement with the requestor. This language is ripe for abuse and has been abused to the
detriment of the patient. (See Real Time Medical Systems, Inc v PointClickCare Technologies,
Inc.; Intus Care, Inc. v. RTZ Assoc., Inc.).
For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(3)), without a current
information blocking disincentive established by CMS, what would be the most effective
disincentive for that category of provider?
Disincentives are only useful when enforced. One possible remedy would be to tie the ability to
be reimbursed from the government to their compliance. In other words, companies would lose
the ability to get reimbursed from the government while they are marked non-compliant, or they
lose their certifications (ability to operate). An electronic medical record (EMR) company that is
found in violation of the Cures Act should lose its certification and be unable to act as the agent
of health care organizations.
How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's
Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance or negatively impact
data exchange?
CMS needs to investigate complaints timely, and enforce penalties for non-compliance. Without
meaningful assessment of penalties, providers are reluctant to take steps against their EMR
companies.
CMS should market this ability (of submitting information blocking complaints), and there needs
to be a traceable ticket with a timeline that is followed for resolution with teeth and penalties for
non-compliance.

Yes, increasing reporting of complaints would ultimately advance and positively impact the data
exchange, as this would ultimately force compliance and prevent bad actors from hiding behind
the Exceptions.
Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of practices you have
experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please include both situations of non-
responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a failure or unusable response?
EMR companies make it difficult to extract some or all of the data. They hide behind barriers
such as “Compliance” or “Cost”, but their behavior is at its core anti-competitive to protect
themselves and their related entities from competition. EMR companies demand license
agreements and unreasonable fees to access patients’ data; limit what data they will agree to
provide; manufacture unproven and undocumented security risks; and condition access to
patients’ data on acceptance of onerous and untenable contract terms, including that the requestor
not compete with the EMR company. Neither the legislation nor the Exceptions were intended
to create a monopoly for services and data analysis by the EMR companies.
What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS implement to further discourage healthcare
providers from engaging in information blocking practices?
The government should create and implement significant penalties for non-compliance.
Alternatively, the government could create a level of certification that is required to be renewed
annually. In addition to the certification, a company would be required to have received not
more than a specified number of valid complaints in a given time period. These penalties should
also automatically apply to EMR companies found to be information blocking.
Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition of information
blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) that lack information
blocking disincentives?
Based on our experience in the long-term care sector, electronic medical record companies
(EMR) don’t seem to have many disincentives for information blocking.
What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) or
participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital health
management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with their patients?
What are the current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption for patients in
ACOs?
By reducing the amount of information blocking, the result would be more creative analytic
applications that will be adopted by organizations if they are proven successful. To increase
interoperability, the government would need to remove the barriers created by medical record
companies, which would result in the more applications being created., the more create
applications would be created. This will result in better outcomes for patients and therefore,
ACOs and insurers will be more likely to use them.

How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population health analytics,
risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement, and patient engagement be
better integrated into APM requirements?
If we encourage interoperability and we make data access readily available to secure creators, the
marketplace will reward better products. Organizations that find that applications that work for
them will integrate those applications into their work platforms. There are many companies that
bring applications together on single platforms, for example, Innovacer, Arcadia, are just a few.
What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value-based care
arrangements?
The ability to use clinical data in analytic ways that help the healthcare team detect problems
earlier and implement responses to avoid hospitalizations, mortality and morbidity.
What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing value-based
care programs?
The most significant interoperability challenge has been the EMR company. We have
experience working with electronic medical record (EMR) companies that create artificial
barriers to prevent our ability to work with the care team to harness the data they need to prevent
medical problems. This is specific to nursing home EMR companies including the most
dominant company in that category.