The following comments are in the context of healthcare coverage and cost
transparency.
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
1. Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can
CMS take to stimulate developer interest in building digital health
products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers?
a) Improve the PBP benefits data – fill in information “gaps”. The
more detailed, accurate and up to date the PBP information, the
more reliable and useful source it can be in answering the
coverage and benefits information needs of both beneficiaries
and those that are soon to become ones. More specifically:
a. For some service categories the PBP dataset includes
only MIN and MAX cost shares, which can differ
significantly, but does not list the specific cost shares for
more specific services. For example, in many plans
advanced radiology has a MIN copayment of $0 and a
MAX of many hundreds of dollars (ie $700+) but no
information as to what copayment applies to which
service (or settings).
b. For some plans, benefits are missing. For example,
according to its EOC, plan H2001_125_0 (NV) offers an
OTC benefit with $40 quarterly allowance, which is
missing from the PBP dataset.
c. Keep the PBP published data up to date: the above item
b. can be the result of a benefit added after the initial
upload of the 2026 PBP data, however, as of now (6/25)
no update was published.
d. Add Notes information: the PBP dataset includes many
Note entries for benefits, however, these fields are still
empty. In our experience, such notes may include a
further breakdown of MIN/MAX benefits, which may
mitigate a. above.
e. Finally, it would be useful to add some structure to the
“free-hand” Other Services data, like b13-19. It could
save time between publishing the PBP data and making
it available to patients.

b) Add PBP-like timely and reliable benefits and premiums data
source for all Medigap plans. This, together with original
Medicare, will allow to present beneficiaries and newcomers
with all their coverage options in a more consumerized way –
compare apples to apples. Currently this information is available
at CMS’s site on a one-by-one basis and needs to be scrapped
to get, say, the set of plans available in a county or a zip code.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data
available through the Blue Button 2.0 API?
Any data you can provide as if the Transparency in Coverage rule
applies to Medicare. Specially, accumulators – financial (how much
of the deductibles have been met, but for Part D also the members
current OOP towards the MOOP), days and related benefit periods,
visits, items – anything that can help getting closer to figuring out
the member’s responsibility regarding medical services and items.