 In Partnership With Clinical Squared’s response to CMS-0042-NC. Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem Prepared specifically for Complete Business Name Clinical Squared, Inc. UEI L98EG84U3CG5 Tax ID 85-1442163 CAGE Code 8ZW00 Contact Information Name: Marquis Allen Title: CEO Address: 8 The Green, #16906, Dover, DE 19904 Tel: 410-660-7208 Email: marquis.allen@clinicalsquared.com Business Size & Classification Small Disadvantaged Business, Minority-owned Small Business 
 Clinical Squared, Inc., in collaboration with Visual C onnections and BurstIQ, is pl eased to submit our response to the Health Technology Ecosystem RFI . For clarity, we have included onl y the questions we’ve addressed and grayed out those not answered. We are excited to support CMS in adva ncing a scalable, impactful Health Technology Ecosystem and welcome your feedback. B. Patients and Caregivers This section is intended for all stakeh olders to provide input on questions as they relate to use cases and workflows that involve patients and caregivers. While we certainly want patients and caregivers to answer questions in this section (and in othe r sections) from the patient/caregiver point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide their viewpoint s on the patient/caregiver workflows. 1. Patient Needs PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as we ll as the actions you should take? An application that lets the user connect their own health data repositories to public and private datasets and helps cr eate understandable analytic insights between the personal data a nd the connected data. a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones' health that can be enabled by digital health products? Intermediate on their behalf with healthcare service providers and payers, assist with research, selection, and scheduling of h ealth services/providers, and help to ensure their data is being used appropriately and with consen t by the right stakeholders. b. If you had a personal assistan t to support your health needs, what are the top th ings you would ask them to help with? In your response, please cons ider tasks that could be supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future. See response in question a. above PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information in one location (for example, in a single patient porta l or another software system)? No. Clinical Squared is developing a platform that unifies health information for a patient that is scattered across multiple EMR's, patient portals, and caregiver practice datasets. a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided? N/A b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one por tal or system to access all such health information? Our workflows feature custom API connect ions that are compatible with major EMR vendors (Epic, Cerner Health, and Meditech), support bulk uploads of data, and provide capability for ad hoc/individual document uploads. c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were unavailable? What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones' comple te health information elec tronically and using it for managing health conditions or finding the best care (for ex ample, limitations in functionality, us er friendliness, or access to basic tec hnology infrastructure)? Images from DICOM/PACS systems te nd to be very large and are 
typically not available to the patien t without making a special request of the health information management (HIM) department of the pract ice facility. In some cases, full lab reports, doctor's no tes, or unedited diagnosis data is not available for fear it mi ght be misinterprete d by a lay person. PC-3. Are you aware of health manage ment, care navigation, or personal hea lth record apps that would be useful to Medicare benefici aries and their caregivers? We are architecting and de veloping a health data management app we feel would be useful and intuitive to Medicare beneficiaries a nd are happy to discuss in detail with CMS leadership at their convenience. PC-4. What features are mis sing from apps you use or that you are aware of today ? Integration with multiple, different healthcare practice EMR systems, scheduling, bi lling, consent, and data re view features on the same platform, and apps that have an intuitive user inte rface that is easily accessible from a mobile device. a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet? An app that has true interoperability between disparate EM R vendors, payers, and health care pract ices that can captu re data created about a patient and include contextual data from the patient them selves. This kind of app can be very costly to build because of the variable data types and sources, and the lack of cooperati on between different data custodians/software vendors in suppor ting a truly interoperable applicati on that does not or iginate from them (see above answers as well). b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer? Workflows around claims data, physician and healthcare servic e provider data, and public health tre nd data based on reported outcomes and services utilized. PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage pa tient and caregiver interest in these digital health products? Measure the use of innovative tec hnology tools and support high perform ing products publicly so that patients and caregivers build trust and the security and accuracy of digital health products that improve the patient and the physicians experience in healthcare service provision. a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health pr oducts on the ba sis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in th e sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if th ere is a review process? What tec hnology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase pa tient and caregiver adoption of dig ital health products (for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement ad justments, or new beneficiary communications)? If CMS were to suggest high performing, accurate, secure digital he alth products to the public, we think it would be meaningful for CMS to have a revi ew process that includes seeking i nputs from the health IT industry (including vendors and software develope rs as well as patients and provide rs who use these tools). We also think that tying greater physician reimbursement to th e proven, effective use of digital health pr oducts will drive practices to demonstrate the efficacy of different apps and platforms. b. What changes would enable timel y access to high quality CMS and provi der generated data on patients? Increase the frequency with which high quality data is reviewed and published by CMS. Additionally, partnering with private sector solution developers and software vendors that are producing high qu ality data that is generated by providers and CMS w ill relieve the burden on agency staff in reviewing and publishing quality data with its workforce. 
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products acce ssible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particul arly those with limited prior experience using digital tools and services? Ease of use is critical. Digital heal th products that have an intuitive user interface and provide data that is Accurate and easy for the user to un derstand are always more successful. PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digita l health products' impact on health outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market , what would be the be st means of doing so? Product and market analysis for digital health tools is certainly available from various sectors of the public. Creati ng an RFI for the health IT industry to respond with analysis seems lik e a good start. 2. Data Access and Integration PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily av ailable and valuable to patie nts or their caregivers or both? We have seen the utility in publicly available data from tr usted resources such as CMS, NIH, CDC, and the FDA. We are strong proponents of creating solutions for consumers that foster access to this public data in a way that connects to an individual's personal context and informs their health journey. a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app deve lopers and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valu able use (for example, claims data, clin ical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)? Data housed in proprietary systems such as electronic medical record (EMR) platforms, clinical research repositories, payor databases, and other commonly commoditized sources are particularly difficult fo r patients and caregivers to gain access. While an individual ma y have options of access to their own data from these sources, access to em pirical or general data about similar experiences, episodes and plans of care, and the like are often unavailable. b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clini cal data, that would be of highest value, and why? We know patients and caregivers benefit from anecdotal information from other patients and caregivers undergoing similar treatments, providing similar healthcare services under similar ci rcumstances and so on. The popularity of patient support groups, professional car egiver cohorts, and other such entitie s demonstrate that people like to ask their (relevant) peers about thei r experiences navigating similar situat ions in healthcare service delivery. c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interopera bility and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more m eaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence? Opportunities include the availability of technology that can ensure secure, auditable exchanges of sensitive data between patients, their caregivers, insu rance companies and other st akeholders in a way which allows them to maintain c ontrol of their own data and consent. We ar e deeply involved in building systems that utilize blockchain technology for digita l ID creation, securing digital documen ts (assets), and th e facilitation of these kinds of transactions. The availability and accessibility of AI tools that can parse enormous data sets quickly and with a high degree of accuracy provide additional opport unities to create tools that ma ke data more consumable and understandable, especially to the ge neral population. We have developed se veral open-source tools that help condense, simplify, and explain healthcare-centric data using AI algorithm s of this sort. Both examples of technology above can be leveraged to interoperate and inte grate in legacy systems so there is no need to incur extreme expense to “rip and replace” in-place systems with new ones. 
Some challenges we see around improving accessibility, interoperabi lity, and integration of clinical data from different sources lie in the siloed state of data. We believe that gove rnmental support of, and sometimes mandate for, an increase in accessibil ity and transparency of data for the benefit of consumers and in the furtherance of public health and safe ty could increase the availability of valuable data, and in some cases, diminish costs. PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient dem ographic, Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D), what additional CMS data s ources do developers view as most valuable for inclusion in the API to enable more useful dig ital products for patien ts and caretakers? We think the inclusion of physician demographic and practice inform ation (like that in NPPES) can be particularly useful for patients choosing an appropriate caretaker for their health care scenario. a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today? In our experience, accessing data sources that are available th rough the Integrated Data Repository (IDR) requires CMS to approve and enable that access for individuals ne eding or requesting it. While this avenue of access allows for more seamless integration of data from multiple CMS curate d data sets, the complexity of this provisioning process can be inefficient. Conversely, CMS data s ources that are publicly av ailable are siloed and disconnected in such a way that it is difficult for the public to use them, either by cr oss-referencing related data or applying their own data context, in a meaningful way. b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API experience? We think that expanding the data sources available in the AP I (as mentioned above) would be a great improvement. We also suggest enhancing developer documentation about the API archit ecture. Publishing clear, detailed guidance would be useful, especially fo r developer groups that are newly codi ng integration for Blue Button 2.0 API c. Is there non-CMS data that s hould be included in the API? We believe there is trem endous value in data from FDA (drug and medical device information), NIH (c linical trials data) and CDC (public health and safety information). Additionally, tying the API into pr ivate sector data such as Healthgrades and Yelp could lend new options of utility for consumers. PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common AgreementTM (TEFCATM) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world? a. Please provide specific examples. b. What changes would you suggest? c. What use cases could have a signif icant impact if impl emented through TEFCA? d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance acc ess and existing exchange purposes? e. What standards are you aware of that are not curre ntly in wide use, but c ould improve data access and integration? f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that s hould be consolidated? 
g. Are there adequate alternatives ou tside of TEFCA for achieving widespr ead patient access to their health information? PC-11. How are health information ex changes (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world? The interchange of both routine and critic al patient data across various medical systems has the potential to dramatica lly impact patient outcomes, however patient access tends to lag behind clinician access. We believe th e primary reason behind this is the security infrastructure necessary to ensure that the access is protected and the actual patient can be sufficiently verified a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be? Historically the accuracy of the demographic and personal information was a main issue, the clinical info was not. This ultimately led to clinicians not relying on the HIE for accurate info. b. What changes would you suggest? Data normalization is critical. Unfortuna tely, that needs to start at each facility’s EMR solution. Accurate and consistent name (first, last, middle initial a nd last 4 of SSN or other universal unique identifi er) would be a good start. c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe should be propagated across markets? The model propagated by the HIE in Maryland called CRISP (Chesapeake Regional Information System for our Patients) has been effective and successful enough to have expanded their services into 5 other states through shared services partnerships . Their example should ce rtainly be considered. d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs a midst other entities facil itating data exchange and broader frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health information networks, TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)? PC-12. What are the most valuable op erational health data use cases fo r patients and caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate barriers to competition among providers or both? Immediacy of information is critical , weekly or monthly batch uploads just don’t help the patients. And again, data normalization would be key to this issue. a. Examples may include the following: (1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods. Agreed . Maryland’s rate commission helps to address this issue. (2) Viewing provider sc hedule availability. Agreed, but again, this relies on normalization of each facility’s EMR solution. (3) Using third-party apps for appointment management. Far too often third-party a pps are too focused on one or two solutions to a problem: cal endar scheduling and cance llations. Third party apps that consider other necessary elements like EMR in tegration, real time alerts to changes, and the other features can be useful, especially if they can inte grate across multiple systems. (4) Accessing patient-facing quality metrics. We agree that this is a valuable da ta set, however, fa cilities are all over the place tracking this information. Perhaps an opera tional agreement can help narrow the gap and provide a benefit for the actual patient. 
(5) Finding the right provider fo r specific healthcare needs. Far too often the faciliti es don’t maintain this information on a timely basis, as phy sician rosters are notoriously out of date for most facilities, payer networks, and the like. Patient-facing search tools claim providers are accepting new patients, but when the patient reaches out to the provider directly, they are not accepting new patients. b. What use cases are possible today? Patient and provider demograp hics, and clinical outcomes c. What should be possible in the near future? If stringent requirements are impos ed, the data can be much more valuable to both clin ician and patient. d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve? The aforementioned data normalization. If all participating systems can provide consistent accurate data, HIEs can play a much larger role in positive and informative patient experiences. 3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Po rtal? What would be the impact? Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negativ ely impact data exchange? Determining which patient and caregiver submissions have merit will be challenging and may require resource-int ensive manual review. It may be more effective to enforce at the healthcar e provider (HCP) level – make cl aims subject to denial if it is found that the HCP did not use reasonable efforts to obtain info rmation, or penalties (eve n civil action) if an HC P withheld information. PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing se rvice providers (CSP)): a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/car egivers to sign up and use digital identity credentials? A huge challenge lies in lack of trust in government or corporate use of se nsitive personal da ta. This can be mitigated by usi ng solutions like Burst IQ’s LifeGraph in which the patient/caregiver owns and controls their data/identity. Low technology literacy in some populati ons also proves to be extremely challenging; tech illiteracy and clinical complexity are directly correl ated, further exacerbating the issue since these are the populations that use the most services. b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were more widely used? Better care, less duplication of care, increa sed care coordination, lower costs if digital IDs are used to enable data sharing between HCPs, reduction of the likelihood of identity or PHI theft. c. What are the potential downsides? Potentially inequitable care for t hose who can't or don't adopt digital identity solutions. Also, if digital ID credentials are implemented in a centralized manner, the risk of a large- scale breach is significant. This can be mitig ated by using a distributed data ecosystem like LifeGraph , which allows patients, providers, and health care organizations to own and control their data. This decentralizes data access and control, so breaches can't access as much data. d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information? By improving the security and authentication that is a critical foundation for all data exchange systems. 
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, an d app developers have in driving adoption?  CMS/payers: see 'f' below.  Providers: prioritize EMRs, scheduling systems, workforc e solutions, and other systems that leverage digital identities  App developers: make digital identity soluti ons user-friendly and adopt st andards-based solutions. f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials? Automatically issue a digital identity for all Medicare recipients and require Medicaid agencies to provide a t imeline for digital identity adoption. Commercial payers will follow suit. C. Providers This section is intended for all stakeh olders to provide input on questions as they relate to use cases and workflows that involve providers. While we certainly want providers to answer questions in this section (and in other sections) from the provide r point of view, we also invite all st akeholders to provide their viewpoints on the provider workflows as appropriate. 1. Digital Health Apps PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage prov iders, including those in rural areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digita l health products for their patients? Provide comprehensive support to providers in learning how to leverage approved digital heal th products and incentivize them to adopt them in a measurable way. Eventually, mandate the use of those digital health products th at show a demonstrable improvement in patient expe rience and patient outcomes. a. What are the current obstacles? Expense of these novel digital health pr oducts, their ability to integrate with legacy systems b. What information should providers share with patients when using digita l products in the provision of their care? Full disclosure of how the products are used by the providers, how the products benefit patient care both from the provider and the patient perspective, and support resources and documentation that is readily consumable and understandable by their patient populations. c. What responsibilities do provide rs have when recommending use of a digital product by a patient? Physicians must be very attuned to the utility of the di gital products they woul d recommend to a patient from the patient’s perspective . Physicians must also understand the risks th eir patients may assume in using these digital products. We also believe that if a ph ysician recommends the use of a digita l product that has an adverse effect, unintended consequences, or causes actual damage in the patient’s experience, they should be prepared to assist in mitigating the damage, at least indirectly. PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, depl oyment, or effectiv e utilization of the most useful and innovative applications for physic ian workflows, such as quality measurement re porting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these obstacles be mitigated? Cost is a large obstacle. Effective development, deployment, and utilization of best-in-class innovative applications tend to be very expensive. 
Clinicians/practices are al so risk-averse and tend to adopt innovati on very slowly. Incen tivizing adoption of innovation through direct funding of its development and inte gration could be very motiv ating in this regard. PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and inter operability in urban and rural areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of st orage format (for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text no tes, structured data fields)? Please address all of the following: a. Current challenges in accessing different data formats. b. Impact on patient care quality. c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility. d. Cost or privacy implications of ma king all data format s interoperable. e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs. PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be need ed for patients' third-party digital products to have access to administra tive workflows, such as auto-popula ting intake forms, viewing provider information and schedules, and maki ng and modifying an appointment? 2. Data Exchange PR-5. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you alread y support or utilize in your provider organization's systems, directly or through an intermedia ry? For each, describe the transaction model, use case, whether you use individual queries or bulk transactions, a nd any constraints: a. Patient Access API. b. Standardized API for Patie nt and Population Services. c. Provider Directory API. d. Provider Access API. e. Payer-to-Payer API. f. Prior Authorization API. g. Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based acce ss filtering for population-specific queries? h. SMART on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and standalone app access? What does the process for application deployment entail? i. CDS Hooks (for clinical de cision support integrations). 
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advan ce provider access to health information? a. Please provide specific examples. b. What changes would you suggest? c. What other options are available outside of TEFCA? d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or ch annels or both that could be consolidated? PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality, timely, and comprehensive healthcare data availa ble for interoperability in the di gital product ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics that providers are already motivated to optimize fo r that could be reused for, or combined with, efforts needed to support interoperability? PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities of providers? a. What would be the benefits and do wnsides of using Bulk FHIR data expor ts from EHRs to CMS to simplify clinical quality data submissions? Can CMS reduce the burden on providers by performing quality metrics calculations leveraging Bulk FHIR data exports? b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality re porting responsibilities of prov iders be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed? c. Are there requirements CMS should c onsider for data registries to supp ort digital quality measurement in a more efficient manner? Are there re quirements CMS should consider for da ta registries that would support access to real-time quality data for healthcare provider s to inform clinical care in addition to simplifying reporting processes? 3. Digital Identity PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentia ls (for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partne rs instead of proprietary logins that need to be tracked for each provider relationship? Mandate it. This will force EMRs to incorpor ate it into their solutions. Providers will only adopt if the EMRs provide it as part of their solution. a. What would providers need help with to accelerate th e transition to a single set of trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep trac k of, instead of one for each provider? See above. Also, this requires patient/consumer adoption, which will be driven by states (i.e., Real ID) b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenien ce and access to digital health products and services that may lead to significa nt improvements in health? Allow patients to opt-in to personalization of recommended services, potentially in exchange for copay cr edits or other financial incentives. This is a familiar paradigm for patients since they are used to pe rsonalization in their on line retail experiences. LifeGraph can be 
used to power patient-centric service marketplaces wher e patients can access servi ces that are recommended for them and personalized to them. Data is only shared with the service providers if the patient opts in. Recommendations are based on each person but also base d on what has worked/not worked for millions of other similar people. This improves engage ment, adherence, and clinical outcomes. PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs): a. What are the challenges and benefits for providers ? Challenges: lack of understanding of how digital identity credentials work impacts adoption. Ma ny providers don't understa nd if/how digital identi ty credentials meet their compliance requirements , so they deem it "safer" to stick w ith legacy manual processes, even though digital identities are more secure, auditable, and trustworthy than manual credentials. Benefits: reducing fraud, waste, and abuse, streamlines the credentialing process to get providers working faster. b. How would requiring their use impr ove access to health information? Better care, less dup lication of care, increased care coordination, lower co sts if digital IDs are used to enable data sharing between HCPs. LifeGraph can serve as the secure data ecosystem that enables patients, providers, and paye rs to access and share data while maintaining ownership and control of their data . Serving as a national HIE and provider credential network. Data is only accessible to providers who ar e properly credentialed. G overnance and regulatory compliance, including patient consent, are automatic ally enforced. All trans actions are auditable. c. What are the potential downsides? Short term: potentially lengthy adoption and learning curve. Long term: potentially inequitable care for patients who can't or don't adopt digi tal identity solutions . This could mean poor HEDIS and eCQM ratings for providers that serv e low-tech-literacy populations. d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a nationwide provider directory? Mandatory credentials would be a driving force to make a comprehensive provi der directory more useful. Digital credentials would transform a simple directory into a valuable credential repository that drives next -gen credentialing services, healthcare workforce solutions, and other operations software. LifeGraph can serve as the secure data ecosystem that allows providers to own, maintain, upda te, and share their verified identity and credentials. Credentialing services, EMRs, workforce management plat forms, and other products and services would be able to access the CMS data ecosystem via API and securely access up-to-date provider data on a real-time basis. e. How could digital identity implement ation improve provider data flow? By providing better authentication/transparency/accountability for pr ovider-to-provider data exchange. Additionally, having a provider digital identity linked to prov ider activity (encounters, claims, etc.) allows for better understanding of how providers are interacting with each other and with patients. This provides better analyt ics opportunities for FWA analysis. Because LifeGraph can manage individual da ta (e.g., provider digital identities) and operations data, it can be used to automate ma ny processes that require identity verification and "need to know" standing, all based on unified knowledge graphs of providers, patients, encount ers, claims, operati onal data, and more. f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data flow? Yes. Coupling these together would allow for end-to-end automation, per ' e.' above. PR-11. How could member s of trust communities  [3] (for example, QHINs, partic ipants and subparticipants in TEFCA, which requires Identity As surance Level 2 (IAL2) via Credentia l Service Providers (CSPs)) better 
support the goals of reduced provide r and patient burden while also en hancing identity management and security? These entities mentioned already se rve as data brokers, so they ar e in a great position to serve as identity brokers, tying data sh aring to identity verification. 4. Information Blocking PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revisi ng any of the informati on blocking exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subpart s B through D) to further the access, exchange, and use of electronic health in formation (EHI) and to prom ote market competition? PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300 jj(3)), without a cu rrent information blocking disincentive estab lished by CMS, what would be the most ef fective disincentive for that category of provider? PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it adva nce or negatively impact data exchange? D. Payers PA-1. What policy or technical limi tations do you see in TEFCA? What changes would you suggest to address those limitations? To what degree do you expect these limitations to hinder participation in TEFCA? PA-2. How can CMS encourage payers to accelerate the implem entation and utilization of APIs for patients, providers, and other payers, similar to the Blue Button 2.0 an d Data at the Point of Care APIs released by CMS? PA-3. How can CMS encourage payers to accept digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partne rs instead of proprietary logins? PA-4. What would be the valu e to payers of a nationwide provider dire ctory that included FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials? PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities of providers? a. How interested are payers and prov iders in EHR technology advances that enable bulk extraction of clinical quality data from EHRs to payers to allow them to do the calculations in stead of the provider-side technology? b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of providers to both CMS and other payers be consolidated so i nvestments can be dually purposed? Ar e there technologies payers might leverage that would support access to r eal time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical care in addition to simplifying reporting processes? PA-7. How can CMS encourage payers to submit inform ation blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be th e impact? Would it advance or ne gatively impact data exchange? E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks 
This section is intended for all stakeh olders to provide input on questions as they relate to use cases and workflows that involve technology vendor s, data providers, and networks. Wh ile we certainly want technology vendors, data providers, and networks to answer questions in this section (a nd in other sections) from their point of view, we also invite al l stakeholders to provide th eir viewpoints on the technol ogy vendor, data provider, and network use cases as appropriate. 1. Ecosystem TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS ta ke to stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiar ies and caregivers? Continue to embrace development of solutions using open-source technology and in crease adoption of innova tive tools from small innovators/developers with limited de ployment, low-cost pilots that pr ove their safety and efficacy. Also, developer interest in buil ding digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers will certainly increase as CMS continues to engage with the develope r community, not just the largest healthcare software vendors on the market. TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest— a. What additional data would be most valu able if made available through CMS APIs? Patient experience data, quality measures, drug and medical de vice information, and an accurate physic ian directory that offers practice information (languages spoke n, insurance accepted, etc.) b. What data sources are most valu able alongside the data availabl e through the Blue Button 2.0 API? Data that the patient can provide regarding thei r health experiences or requirement s, or that a provider can provide without c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today? Availability of secure , user-friendly data interfaces where patients can share their data safely while maintaining control and ownership. d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program poli cies to unleash innovation and support patients and providers? Clinical Squared has crea ted custom API’s that tie into public data sets from CMS, FDA, NIH, and can be customized to integr ate in virtually any health care ecosystem. We invite CMS to discuss this in detail with us at its convenience. 2. Digital Identity TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation: a. What are the challenges and benefits? Significant challenges lie in lack of trust in g overnment or corporate use of sensitive personal data, a nd low technology literacy in some populations which can hamper adoption ( see answers in section PC-14 a. ) Some benefits of digital identity implementation include better care, less duplication of care, increased care c oordination, lower costs if digital IDs are used to enable data sharing between HCPs, reduction of the lik elihood of identity or PHI theft ( see answers in section PC-14 b ). b. How would requiring digital iden tity credentials (for example, CLEA R, Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800- 63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybe rsecurity and data exchange ? Cybersecurity will be enhanced by 
mandating the use of digital ID credentials and standa rdizing the authentication methodology (as mentioned in question c. below). Data exchange will be mo re highly auditable, and transactions can readily be attributed to specific performers within the data exchange ecosystem. c. What impact would mandatory use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol have? Mandating the use of this protocol will standardize the way technology developers and vendors build authentication functionality into their tools & applications and will simpli fy the integration of different external tools into existing systems. It will also ensure that the authentication method used by a pps for health data exchan ges achieve a benchmark of quality of security in or der to be implemented. 3. Technical Standards and Certification TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, sta ndards-based, publicly available APIs over proprietary APIs? TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publis h such a directory, and s hould users bear a cost? TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform? a. What existing alternativ es should be considered? b. Are there redundant standards, pr otocols or channels or both that should be consolidated? TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperabi lity and exchange and wh at are its limitations? a. Does it contain th e full extent of da ta elements you need? b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI fo rmat or the way it is utilized? c. If so, would adding more data el ements to USCDI add value or creat e scoping challenges? How could such challenges be addressed? d. Given improvements in language mode ls, would you prefer a non-proprietary but less structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more processing by the receiver? TD-8. What are the most e ffective certification criteria and standard s under the ONC Health IT Certification Program? TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT: a. What are the benefits of redefining certification to prioritize API-enabled capabilities over software functionality? b. What would be the drawbacks? 
c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certificati on criteria to require APIs to consistently support exchanging data from all asp ects of the patient's chart (for example, fa xed records, free text , discrete data)? d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to API-based data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data? e. How could EHRs capable of bulk da ta transfer be used to reduce the bu rden on providers for reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are needed to show benefit? What conc erns are there with this approach? TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification Pr ogram, what further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to imple ment the 21st Century Cures Act's API condition of certification (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv)) that requires a developer' s APIs to allow health information to be accessed, exchanged, and used without special effort, including providing access to all data elements of a patient's electronic health reco rd to the extent permissible under applicable privacy laws? TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products ce rtified through the ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the capability to perform an electronic health information export or “EHI export” for a single patien t as well as for patient populations ( 45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)). Such health IT developers are also required to pub licly describe the format of the EH I export. Notably, how EHI export was accomplished was left entirely to the hea lth IT developer. Now that this ca pability has been in production for over a year, CMS and ASTP/ONC seek input on the following: a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requi rements for EHI export? b. Are there specific workflow as pects that could be improved? c. Should CMS consider policy changes to support this capability's use? 4. Data Exchange TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and netw orks, and if so, what criteria or metrics should CMS consider? TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could em erge with APIs providing access to the entirety of a patient's electronic health information (EHI)? a. What are the primary obstacles to this? b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI, especially gi ven more flexible data processing capabilities today? TD-14. Regarding networks' use of FHIR APIs: 
a. How many endpoints is your network connected to fo r patient data sharing? What types, categories, geographies of endpoints do you cove r? Are they searchable by Nati onal Provider Identifier (NPI) or organizational ID? b. How are these connections established (for example, FHIR (g)(10) endpoints, TEFC A/Integrating the Health Enterprise (IHE) XCA, or proprietary APIs)? c. Do you interconnect with other networks? Under what frameworks (for example, TEFCA, private agreements)? TD-15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs: a. How would increased use of bulk FH IR improve use cases and data flow? b. What are the potential disa dvantages of their use? TD-16. What are the tradeoffs of ma intaining point-to-point models vs. shared network infrastructure? a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participation? b. What changes would improve alignment (for example, API unificati on, reciprocal access)? TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in ensuring viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough suppl y and demand, that results in usage and outcomes? 5. Compliance TD-18. Information blocking: a. Could you, as a technology vendor, pr ovide examples for the types of practices you have experienced that may constitute information bl ocking. Please include both situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a failure or unusable response? b. What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS imp lement to further discourage healthcare providers from engaging in informa tion blocking practices? c. Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition of information blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Pub lic Health Service Act (PHSA) that la ck information blocking disincentives? TD-19. Regarding price tran sparency implementation: a. What are current shortcomings in c ontent, format, delivery, and timeliness? b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional pr ice transparency? c. What improvements would be mo st valuable for patients, provi ders, or payers, including CMS? 
d. What would further motiv ate solution development? F. Value-Based Care Organizations This section is intended for all stakeh olders to provide input on questions as they relate to use cases and workflows that involve value-based car e organizations. While we certainly wa nt value-based care organizations to answer questions in this section (and in other sections) fro m the value-based care pr ovider point of view, we also invite all stakeholde rs to provide their viewpoints on the va lue-based care workflows as appropriate. 1. Digital Health Adoption VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as acco untable care organizations (ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to levera ge digital health manage ment and care navigation products more often and more effectiv ely with their patients? What are th e current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption for patients in ACOs? Remove the restrictions that in surance plans use to limit patient choices and movement. Several incentives can be implemented:  Tie reimbursement and shared savings mo re directly to the use of digital tools ,  Offer additional bonuses or shared savings for ACOs that ac hieve high rates of patient engagement with digital tools or meas urable improvements in quality metrics a ttributable to digital interventions,  Provide ACOs with enhanced access to real-time data, analytics, and interoperability tools , making it easier to integrate digital health solu tions into care deliv ery and coordination,  Reward ACOs that successfully engage patients through digital means (e.g., mobile apps, remote monitoring, care navigation platforms) , as consumer engagement is increasingly recognized as a key driver of value-based care success. Obstacles preventing broader di gital product adop tion include  The inability for solutions to fit into existing clinical a nd administrative workflows,  Limited interoperability between digital tool s, EHRs, and other health IT systems,  If digital tools are not user-friendl y or do not demonstrate clear value, utilization rates remain low. VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as arti ficial intelligence, populati on health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usabi lity, quality measurement, and patient engagement be better integrated into APM requirements? Mandating and incentivizing the use of platfo rms and software solu tions that support advanced analytics, the use of responsible and explaina ble AI, and population health tools will certainly foster their integration into APM requirement s. Making population health analytic s and risk stratification core APM requirements will lead to using these technologies in id entifying high risk patients, targeting interventions, and efficiently allocating resources. Tying provider reimbursement to the successf ul use of patient engagement tools like patient portals & digital communication and including metrics that demonstrate th ese successes as part of APM performance measures can foster the adoption. VB-3. What are essential health IT capabi lities for value-based care arrangements? We believe all examples cited below are essential health IT capabilities for a value-based care pr actice to positively impact patient outcomes, increase efficiency of care, and lower costs including care planning , patient event notification , data extraction/normalization , quality/performance measurement , access to claims data , attribution and patient ID 
matching , and remote device interoperability . We would like to add the critical need for health IT to include capturing patient experiences in structure d, semi-structured, a nd unstructured data. a. Examples (not comprehensiv e) may include: care planning, pa tient event notification, data extraction/normalization, quality performance measuremen t, access to claims data, at tribution and patient ID matching, remote device interoperability, or other patient empowerment tools. b. What other health IT capabilitie s have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based care arrangements? Telemedicine and virtual car e, patient safety and incident reporti ng systems, and clini cal decision support (CDS) tools have all been very useful in successful value-ba sed care arrangements. VB-4. What are the essential data ty pes needed for successful participatio n in value-based care arrangements? Structured data (e.g., numerical, coded, and tabular formats), semi-structured data (as in clinical notes, images, and reports), and unstructured data (like free-text narratives, social media, and patient- generated content) cover the broad formats from the orig inal sources that data comes from, and so, all are essential. That said, essential data types include:  Electronic Health Records (EHRs)  Claims Data  Social Determinants of Health (SDoH) Data  Patient Demographics  Clinical Risk Scores and Health Risk Assessments  Admission, Discharge, and Transfer (ADT) Data  Quality Performance Metrics  Patient Engagement a nd Experience Data  Attribution and Patient ID Matching Data 2. Compliance and Certification VB-5. In your experience, how do current certification criteria and standards incorporated into the ONC Health IT Certification Program suppor t value-based care delivery? VB-6. What specific health information technology cap abilities that could benefit APMs are not currently addressed by existing certification criteria and standards that should be included under the ONC Health IT Certification Program? VB-7. How can technology requireme nts for APMs, established through CEHRT or other pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility? VB-8. How can other HHS policies s upplement CEHRT requirements to be tter optimize the use of digital health products in APMs? As an exam ple, requirements under th e Conditions of Particip ation for hospitals (42 CFR 482.24(d)) require hospitals to tr ansmit electronic patient event notifications to community providers. What barriers are in place preventing APM partic ipants from receiving the same notifications? VB-9. What technology requirements s hould be different for APM organiza tions when comparing to non-APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and interoperability)? APM and non-APM organizations should 
have identical technology and reporting requirements. Doing otherwis e would support a two-tier healthcare delivery system which would be unbal anced, cumbersome to ad minister, and unnecessari ly more expensive. VB-10. In the Calendar Year (CY) 2024 Physician Fee Sc hedule final rule (88 FR 79413), CMS established that CEHRT requirements for Advanced AP Ms beyond those in the “Base EHR” de finition should be flexible based on what is applicable to the APM that year based on the area of clinical pr actice. What certification criteria should CMS identify under this flexib ility for specific Advanced APMs, or for Advanced APMs in general? Are there specific flexibilities or alternatives to consider for smaller or resource-constraine d (such as rural) providers in meeting CEHRT requireme nts without compromising quality of care or availability of performance data? 3. Technical Standards VB-11. What specific interoperabi lity challenges have you encountered in implementing value-based care programs? VB-12. What technology standardiz ation would preserve program-speci fic flexibility while promoting innovation in APM technology implementation? VB-13. What improvements to existing criteria and standard s would better support valu e-based care capabilities while reducing provider burden? VB-14. How could implementing digital identity credentia ls improve value-based car e delivery and outcomes? VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would be necessa ry in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maxi mize its effectiveness? 