Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Dear Sir/Madam, Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the provided questions on how CMS and HHS can make healthcare access and technology more eAective. Years of rulemaking and incentives for open access to healthcare information have not solved the problem of patients lacking consistent and easy access to their records. Confusing hurdles force many patients to give up. Despite the poor progress on open access technology, the overall digitization of healthcare has sped up with providers and payors spending records amounts of money on digital services that don’t follow open standards, create data silos, and create waste and friction. This has also resulted in patients losing control of their data and how it’s used. CMS and HHS must ensure open documentation and free availability of foundational healthcare frameworks and give patients and their families control over their records. PC-1. Health management or care navigation apps The best option here is also the most American option, provide an open network (like the interstate highway system did for travel and trade) and make it easy for many apps to exist with the same access to data to supply consumers. A consumer can use Apple Health, MyChart Mobile, Samsung Health, or many health insight apps; and all those apps should have access to the same underlying data, access to APIs to allow consumers to take the same actions, and security and privacy controls so they can leave and remove their data entirely from those platforms at any time. 
 PC-2. Ease of access Today, the only central records I have for my health, as I believe is true for most healthcare consumers, are my own copies of records I’ve copied and scanned. Because of moves, changing providers, those providers changing records systems, and frequent provider data entry errors, there is no central portal where all my records are complete and correct. PC-2c. Types of records Speciﬁcally, my vaccine records are incomplete; I only have photocopies of my previous x-rays, and these x-rays aren't in any portal I can access. My dental and vision records are scattered in various locations. PC-3. Apps that would be useful The best and closest thing to a central app today is Apple Health. Because it's end-to-end encrypted, Apple Health prevents my records from being lost or leaked; it integrates any records I provide; it generates useful summaries of changes over time; and it uses a common standard, allowing me to export information. Sadly, my scanned paper records aren’t in a format Apple Health can import. My ideal app merges all my records from every source into a central, user-controlled location. All health records, billing records, vaccine records, prescription records, dental records, vision records, etc. can all come into an encrypted central place I control, so other companies can’t data mine and sell it or use it for marketing. Then I could also share some or all my records with others from this system. PC-4. Missing features Today, there is an implicit right that providers can store patient records forever. This is unreasonable. There is no reason a health provider in a state I no longer live needs copies of my x-rays from 5 years ago still in their possession. Some providers have also mined these resources by selling this data with various levels of anonymization. Epic Cosmos also combines all the health records of every epic patient in the United States and some other countries into a central database without patient opt-in. Systems like Epic Cosmos should be opt-in only for patients. Patients should be able to request removal of their records from digital healthcare, provider, and payer systems after a period. Patients must be able to view a history of every person and company who has viewed their data for an audit trail. Any anonymization and sale of combined patient data should be only opt-in only. 
TD-3. Digital Identity Patients should be able to identify easily to gain access to their records, with secure methods of access. OIDC and IAL2, along with FIDO Passkeys, oAer great options to allow this access easily and to make identity portable with federation. I should not need multiple accounts between my One Medical portal, my Calm app, my Aetna portal, etc. Ideally, I can log into any of these by sharing a digital ID (like mDL or Apple Wallet ID) with no need to sign up for a username/password account at all. After the ﬁrst login, users could save a device passkey for faster future logins. If I lose my passkey, I can reshare my digital ID or use a legacy system like ID.me or Clear to regain access. TD-6. TEFCA As a patient, I am not yet reaping beneﬁts from TEFCA individual access. Easy implementations of this have not yet made it to market, and much data is still not in systems that respond to TEFCA IAS requests. TD-9. Health IT Increasingly, as a patient, I feel forced into using the portals, apps, and tools my providers and payers want me to use. Many “ads” ﬁll these systems. My payer wants me to use their eye ware supplier, to talk to their dietitian app, and to receive annoying emails and texts about their latest survey. The biggest thing I want as a consumer is to get full access to all my data myself into apps I choose, and that all those apps have the same level of access to make changes, take actions, schedule appointments as the providers and payors own apps can. This also motivates the payer and provider apps to be better. TD-11. EHI Export I view EHI Export as a signiﬁcant point of hope; but it needs to be automated and allow for incremental updates so I can continue to get information from EHI Export from my payers and providers in near real time. I’d also like an “EHI Import” approach so I can move my records between networks; and a “EHI Delete” process where when I leave a network, I can remove my records en masse from their system. Thank you for allowing for this open comment period, and I hope through the feedback received you’ll be able to position for a more open future. 