EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
COMPANY OVERVIEW
INTEGRATED TELEHEALTH, INC Global Telehealth Services (GTS) is the developer of GTS VirtualHealth Platform™
DBA GLOBAL TELEHEALTH (GTS-VP), a FedRAMP Authorized, open architecture, universal middleware platform,
SERVICES that provides Remote Patient Monitoring and Treatment at Distance. The GTS-VP is
designed to be an enterprise solution, configurable to work within workflows and
GlobalTelehealthServices.com business processes of healthcare organizations and payors, to meet current and future
needs in these areas.
KEY PLATFORM CAPABILITIES
CORPORATE ADDRESS
75 Milford Drive, Suite 111 • Disease state/health condition agnostic and device adaptable
Hudson, Ohio 44236 • Flexible Patient engagement, to meet every patient where they
Phone | Fax: (216) 373-2221 • Customizable patient assessments and protocols
• Patient/caregiver secure messaging and video conferencing
• Integration of peripheral medical devices
CONTACTS • EMR/EHR integration via Azure FHIR
Christopher Beseda • Software-only SaaS healthcare model for maximum flexibility
Chief Operating Officer
330-221-0027 CLINICIAN PORTAL
cbeseda@globaltelehealthservices.com
The GTS-VP is provider-centric allowing the capabilities of RPM and Treatment at
Brendan Coughlin Distance to be integrated into a comprehensive treatment plan.
Executive Vice President • Create specific, adherence-based treatment plans helps to drive patient behavior,
214-507-0005 to improve patient outcomes.
bcoughlin@globaltelehealthservices.com • Exception-based management, reducing care team workload
PATIENT APPLICATION: GTS VirtualHealth™
CAGE CODE The GTS VirtualHealth™ mobile app provides a robust, dynamic, yet simple interface
877U0 for most patient engagement. Including capabilities for:
• Vital reading collection
• Patient assessments and surveys
DUNS • Image collection
002241385 • Secure messaging/video conferencing
• Patient education and engagement
NAICS CODES COMPANION APPLICATION: GTS SmartShare™
511210, 541511
Separate mobile app that allows for the inclusion of family and friends in the care
process, helping to drive treatment plan adherence and improve patient outcomes.
CONTRACT VEHICLES
NASA SEWP SECURITY & COMPLIANCE
GSA
The GTS-VP is the only FedRAMP Authorized RPM platform in the market. GTS also
holds an Authority to Operate (ATO) with VA.
VA CONTRACT DETAILS
VA Contract No. 36C10A23D0005 TREATMENT AT DISTANCE
Awarded July 27, 2023
Four Year Enterprise IDIQ Getting the most expensive chronic patients treatment to reduce readmissions
Providing comprehensive treatment for rural and disable patients
Pre and post-natal monitoring to decrease infant and maternal mortality
Patient education to address incontinence
VA BUSINESS OWNER
Jacob Herzog
The limit of what can be done remotely is only beginning to be understood. What can
jacob.herzog@va.gov
you think of that help patients and reduce the burden to the healthcare system?
VA Mobile: (314)745-3909

Global Telehealth Services, Inc.
Response to Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Global Telehealth Services, Inc. (GTS) is pleased to offer our thoughts and comments in response to the Request for Information (RFI); Health
Technology Ecosystem published by CMS. GTS, as a company, is focused on delivery of Treatment at Distance capabilities, think Remote Patient
Monitoring (RPM), and while this may seem to be outside of the scope of this RFI, we believe that the challenges that we have and are facing, particularly
in our work with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), have given us insight into both the challenges and potential solutions to the challenges
described in the solicitation.
While the comments that follow are, consistent with the request in the RFI, separated by question labels, a considerable weight of our comments relate to
the framing language that precedes the questions of the RFI. For those comments, we have excerpted the specific language of the RFI to which the
comments refer.
Solicitation Preamble
“evolving digital health products will gain greater functionality and potential for enhancing the healthcare experience…” – Although the primary focus of
the questions in this RFI seem to be focused on health information repositories or tools from which to access these repositories, the expansion of digital
health products that support treatment at distance will significantly increase the amount of information for each person. Not getting ahead of this increase
will further exacerbate the size and complexity of the challenges to solve. Many of the comments that we have provided are intended to avoid or mitigate
these challenges.
“reducing costs, increasing access to care, enabling chronic disease prevention, and improving healthcare outcomes” – While access to information may
be a piece to achieving these outcomes, it is by no means a single point solution. Success in achieving these outcomes must be accomplished through the
ability to expand care for patients beyond episodic, in person patient interactions. And while RPM can provide a portion of this need, true treatment at
distance is required to achieve these outcomes. This means thinking through every aspect of a patient engagement that today occurs during an in-patient
visit and figuring out how to re-create these components virtually. While some of these may not be replicated, far more can be done than is generally
recognized. Additionally, many of those things that cannot be directly replicated may be able to be accomplished in a manner that may not provide the
same level of efficacy as in person, but may be sufficient for contact between office visits.
The GTS VirtualHealth Platform (GTS-VP) is a platform that was designed to be able to provide the richest possible communications channel between
patients and providers to enable treatment at distance.
“To get access to their data, patients have to track which providers they have seen and set up separate accounts and credentials with each portal…” – As
bad as this issue is for access to health information, the challenge is far worse when it comes to RPM. The typical model is for companies in this space is
based on devices. Companies create devices to address specific readings and then build software applications to allow access. Patients are expected to use
the device and submit readings through the software app. Thus, for a patient requiring multiple types of readings, it may mean having to access several
different apps in order to take a single set of readings. And if the readings are expected to be taken regularly, the challenge for a chronic patient are almost
insurmountable.
The GTS-VP)is in use with VA and one of the primary reasons that VA sponsored the platform for FedRAMP is the ability of the platform to accept
readings from most any type of device. This enables patients to connect and take readings from all of the devices necessary for their treatment program
through a single, easy to use, application. Within VA, the GTS-VP is increasingly being seen and used as a pathway for ‘capability consolidation.’ VA has
a vast array of different capabilities, running from medical devices for vital readings, to mobile apps for any number of physiological and psychological
treatments. VA has discovered that not only are any of these disparate solutions able to transit information to the EMR, but they create a level of effort and
work for providers that is unsustainable. From within the GTS-VP patient mobile app, patients are able to see any and all of the information that has been
submitted
PC-4b One of the greatest hurdles to adoption of RPM is that in order to make this model work, at scale, in a financially responsible manner, is the
staffing and workflows required are distinctly different from how traditional healthcare functions. In order to achieve the better health outcomes,
especially for chronically ill patients, extra effort is often needed to help shape behavior. If the goal is to actually get these patients, who generally got into
their current situation through less than ideal behavior, then being able to have the additional effort required to get these patients to adhere to a treatment
plan should be able to be accounted for in billing codes under CMS. This means not only including additional codes for these activities, it also means
making sure that in order to charge for these codes, it wouldn’t require a medical professional to be doing the work. And while it might be nice to think
that this function could be achieved through AI, when it comes to being able to meet patients where they are (patient-centric) many of the patients who are
most in need of these services are the least likely to be able to be addressed by this high level of technology.
PC-5 We believe that CMS has several powerful tools that would help promote the interest in extending the use of health technology products and
services. The most important tool that CMS can use is to expand the available billing codes associated with the use Remote Patient Monitoring. Providers
focus on those activities that generate revenue. The billing codes available to them are the most powerful tools to focus these efforts.
PC-5a If CMS were to seek to being involved in any manner for the approval of digital health products, it should be in a form that incentivizes specific
types of actions and activities by the market, rather than direct or even indirect oversight. The manner in which CMS promoted ‘Meaningful Use’ for
EMR/EHRs, is probably the best example of where CMS used the right tools. This is not to say that there weren’t challenges to driving Meaningful Use,
but this plan also generated a tremendous shift in the healthcare system.
PC-6 The most important ‘feature’ in supporting increased use of health technology is simplicity. The general trend in health technology is driven
primarily by people creating these technologies. In general, companies promoting the technologies are focused on the technology and maximizing its use.
Unfortunately, the people who would benefit the most from these technologies, patients with chronic conditions, are the least likely to be able to use these

technologies effectively. Form factor is also a key facet to supporting adoption of health technologies. Again, the easier it is for patients to make use of the
technology, the more likely the adoption.
PC-8 This question raises the issue that has already been discussed, that of supporting the difference between clinical information that may be in a
medical record and the information that may be generated through RPM/Treatment at Distance. The latter generates a considerably larger amount of
information, which makes it more actionable, which is important to generating better outcomes. Another key distinction is being able to combine
education about what to do with he information, once it is made available. In conversations with several QIOs, CMS has already done research on the
education component and have seen the value of this clearly demonstrated. Finding new ways to make this education ongoingly available, especially when
in conjunction with RPM capabilities can lead to the opportunity to generate better interventions that produce better results at lower costs.
PC-8c. The most significant opportunity to expand the availability of RPM information is the continuing extension of the FHIR standard to address a
wider range of RPM data types. Further, the extension of additional billing codes to support and shape how RPM can be used will also support the further
use of this capability and expand the information that may be made available.
Perhaps the greatest challenge to making information related to RPM more accessible and useful is the lack of distinction between the healthcare and
wellness spaces. Healthcare clearly delineates the requirement for HIPAA in order to ensure that adequate data security and privacy protections are in
place. The same is not true for the wellness space, which is where many of the companies seeking to address this need are coming from. As such, rarely
do these tools have adequate security in place and even more importantly, the ability to sell the information that is generated through the use of these tools,
is a primary source of revenue for these companies. This is completely incongruous with how healthcare operates. In order for RPM to help provide for
the type of healthcare outcome improvements that CMS is seeking to generate, RPM must be integrated as a significant part of treatment plans for chronic
patients. As such, RPM, and the data that is generated through the process becomes more closely aligned with clinical information, and should be required
to be protected and treated accordingly. CMS has the opportunity to generate a policy distinction that any tools, devices, capabilities that are used in the
treatment process, such that it could create a billable activity, must fall under the rules of HIPAA. A key partner that could be of assistance in finding a
clear and legal path to achieving this is the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The FTC has been working for decades to help shape government activities
that support more security and privacy-centric structures and business models and helping to ensure that a path that seeks to significantly adjust the
delineation of how HIPAA is applied could be very valuable.
PC-12 RPM/Treatment at Distance is, by far, the most important health use case that has the potential to positively impact care efficiency and
effectiveness. RPM also enables the potential for healthcare organizations to increase their geographic range for patients. This has the double benefit of
making adequate healthcare options available to more people and to increase the opportunity for competition as these organizations are able to reach more
patients.
PR-1 Consistent with the answer provided in PC-5, the most substantial opportunity for CMS to positively impact the ability of and for providers to
increase the adoption of digital health products is by increasing the scope and breadth of the billing codes associated with their use.
PR-1a. In addition to the lack of billable codes, as discussed above, there are several current obstacles to the wide-spread adoption of RPM/Treatment at
Distance. The first challenge is the lack of available platforms for RPM. To date, most RPM platforms are focused on single disease states/health
conditions. This makes it extremely difficult for most providers, who deal with the full range of health conditions to be able to help all of their patients. It
would require a provider to work with a range of different RPM solutions, which is to difficult to be contemplated. Another current obstacle is the
workflows and staffing associated with the delivery of RPM/Treatment at Distance. The shift from fee for services to value-based care has been slow to
move, most particularly because of the staffing and workflows necessary to really make this work. An opportunity for CMS would be to work with QIOs
to begin studies or other activities to help determine best practices for both staffing and workflow requirements to successfully achieve financially viable
models for RPM/Treatment at Distance.
The GTS-VP is a health/disease state agnostic and device adaptable platform that is designed to work with healthcare enterprise-scaled organizations.
Fully ready to meet providers and patients where they are and help move them on toward where they seek to be.
PR-2 Consistent with the answer provided in PR-1, the primary obstacles to widespread adoption of RPM/Treatment at Distance are the lack of
adequate incentives, such as billing codes, to make it financially reasonable to make use of these capabilities. The opportunity for CMS is to make use of
QIOs to conduct studies of these capabilities and their use to identify new ways for providers to function that would support the adoption of RPM.