Where healthcare connects.
SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY VIA REGULATIONS.GOV
June 16, 2025
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary of Health & Human Services
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
200 Independence Avenue S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20201
Re: Request for Information, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”),
Department of Health and Human Service (“Department”); Health Technology
Ecosystem; RIN Number 0938-AV68, File Code CMS-0042-NC (the “Health Tech
RFI”)
Dear Secretary Kennedy,
We are writing to you on behalf of Availity, L.L.C. (“Availity”). Availity is the United States’
leading healthcare clearinghouse. We applaud the efforts by CMS and the Department to
request information regarding the future of digital health products for Medicare
beneficiaries as well as the state of data interoperability and broader health technology
infrastructure. Availity believes that our unique position within the American healthcare
system provides us a unique perspective on information sharing and opportunities to
innovate the health technology ecosystem in a manner that empowers patients and
introduces efficiencies to empower a truly great American health system. We appreciate
your consideration of our responses, and we would welcome any opportunity to discuss
our perspectives in more detail.
Availity.com
AVAILITY 5555 Gate Parkway, Ste 110 Jacksonville, FL
Jacksonville, FL 32256 Indianapolis, IN
1.800.282.4548

Introduction
Availity is the largest dual-sided, real-time healthcare network in the United States,
connecting 3.5M+ providers, 95%+ of health plans, and 17K+ technology partners. Built
originally on a core clearinghouse / gateway data exchange solution, our portfolio has since
grown to include (but is not limited to):
• Multi-Payer Portal: The industry’s only payer-sponsored multi-payer portal that
offers providers a one-stop shop to meet compliance and workflow essentials for
their individual payer mix
• Provider Lifecycle Solutions: The largest repository of regularly attesting providers,
collected through integration with provider workflows and claims information
• Intelligent Utilization Management / Authorizations: Real-time, clinical-first
authorization approval engine that uses a provider’s clinical and claims data against
codified payer medical policy
• Payment Accuracy: Shifting predictive edits from payer rules into provider
workflows to ensure that claims are submitted and paid accurately the first time
Driving these solutions are several principles defining how we develop and deliver dual-
sided solutions to both payers and providers:
• Bring the Network – We deliver our users with the largest collection of payers and
providers in the country, directly into their workflows.
• Bridge the Ecosystem – We win only when both payers and providers win. When
that happens, patients have a more seamless healthcare experience.
• Move Upstream – Through our unique position as a trusted partner to both payers
and providers, we proactively resolve friction before it becomes costly after-the-fact
cleanup (preventing the “pay-and-chase” model).
• Drive Behavioral Change – For a dual-sided solution to work, it requires action from
both payers and providers. We are thoughtful in how we incentivize behaviors to
drive simplification.
We appreciate the Department’s focus on empowering patients and their caregivers
throughout their healthcare journey. It is not controversial to suggest that a patient should
not worry about whether a provider’s listed hours are accurate, whether their authorization
decision was made accurately, or whether their claim is processed correctly. However, the
solutions to those problems can only be solved in one way: When payers and providers
have shared solutions that remove administrative friction. Then, patients, their caregivers,
and their care teams focus on what matters most – World-class care.
Avail ity.com

We will respond to this RFI as a Technology Vendor; but given our role working across both
payers and providers, we will also share the perspectives we have gained from them over
twenty-five years of engagement. Our responses will focus on the following areas outlined
in the Technology Vendor section of the RFI:
• Technical Standards – Provider Data Management and Directory
• Data Exchange – HIPAA, Clearinghouses, and Cybersecurity
In the May 20th webinar discussing this RFI, CMS Administrator Dr. Mehmet Oz called for
“meekness” across the US Healthcare ecosystem – Putting down swords and coming
together to deliver better solutions for Americans. With twenty-five years of experience
bridging the divide between payers and providers, we celebrate this call, and we feel
uniquely positioned to support effective and collaborative solutions. We appreciate the
opportunity to respond to this RFI, and we would welcome further discussions on these
and other health technology topics.
Technical Standards - Provider Data Management and Directory
In this section, our responses will cover the following RFI questions:
PA-4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide provider directory that included
FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials?
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access
to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would
be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its effectiveness?
The value of centralized provider data:
We believe a central store of provider data, accessible through FHIR endpoints, can
establish a single source of shared truth for American consumers. This data would drive
access to care by matching a patient's health needs to capable and available providers, all
while driving out harmful “ghost networks.” Beyond this direct benefit to patients and their
caregivers, a single source of truth on provider data would positively impact the entire US
healthcare system. With better, up-to-date provider data, nearly every transaction between
a patient, provider, and payer becomes more accurate and less administratively
burdensome. When done properly, this process then becomes self-generating: More
Avail ity.com

accurate transactions in turn drive even more accurate provider data. The Department and
CMS have an opportunity to achieve this promise of improved provider data by taking the
learnings from existing private and public sector solutions and delivering them at scale.
Our perspective on how to solve the complex problem of provider data capture,
management, and transmission has been shaped by our leadership in this space for the
previous decade. Through our Provider Data Management product and our role as the sole
technology partner for Integrated Healthcare Association’s (IHA) Symphony Provider
Directory utility in California, Availity currently offers the technology behind provider
directory data intake and management in multiple markets for seven of the ten largest
health insurance companies in the US, including Elevance, Aetna, and HCSC, as well as for
leading regional payers such as BCBS Michigan. Through these efforts, we span all major
lines of business as well: Commercial, Medicare, and Medicaid.
Current challenges with provider data:
When considering how to achieve accurate and refreshed provider data, the Department
and CMS must first acknowledge an inherent challenge of prior efforts: While a provider
directory is an important first step, any solution will require more than a traditional
directory, and more than just technical assembly. Mandates for directory reporting - such
as H.R. 133, Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 or The Requirements Related to
Surprise Billing; Part I (No Surprises Act) - have already been established. Despite those,
the problem of missing, inaccurate, or expired provider data remains. Our belief is that
these mandates have failed due to two critical aspects: The current channels for sharing
data are too complex, and providers are not incentivized to engage with them.
Regarding channels, providers are consistently plagued with burdensome administrative
processes that distract from caring for their communities. Directory mandates to date have
not consolidated intake channels, which multiplies the burden on providers. On average, a
provider will contract with between 8 and 20 payer products, each potentially with its own
data intake process. A CMS solution that adds another channel to this process without
relieving the others will struggle to see adoption.
With respect to incentives, mandates have been written to penalize payers for non-
adherence. Providers, meanwhile, rarely feel the effect of non-adherence, despite the
payer being reliant on those providers to update and attest to their data. A payer's primary
penalty for non-compliance - removing a provider from their directory - only harms their
network and their members' access to care. This lack of incentive has led to provider
under-engagement and poor directory quality. Solving the incentive challenge requires
both payers and providers to directly benefit from improved provider data. Availity has
Avail ity.com

addressed this need for mutual benefit by using the data associated with a directory
solution to streamline transaction processing across claims adjudication, authorization
decisioning, utilization management, etc. This creates a business benefit for the provider,
which has resulted in improved and differentiated engagement.
Current market solutions - Provider Data Management, Symphony:
Our perspectives and recommendations are informed by our experience as a trusted
provider data intermediary with multi-payer, multi-provider solutions. These solutions
include our Provider Data Management product, which sits on Availity’s industry-leading
multi-payer portal, and our technology support of IHA’s Symphony product in California.
95% of US providers already use Availity’s multi-payer portal (Essentials) to service their
healthcare transaction needs, and approximately 70% have used it to submit provider data
to their contracted payers. This results in a dataset of over 5.7M attested-to providers
records.
By taking on the burden of coordination across payers, we offer providers a single, tailored
workflow that meets the needs of all contracted health plans, all while minimizing
administrative burden. Within our solution, we uplift providers’ self-reported data with
primary source data, payer data, and data we sense through analyzing the billions of
healthcare transactions processed by Availity (authorizations, claims, eligibility & benefit
checks, etc.). With that data, we then provide a guided experience that identifies elements
most important to review for an accurate profile.
We also understand and have overcome the challenges in seeking to centralize the
fragmented provider data picture into a universal directory. In partnership with IHA, Availity
has built and implemented Symphony, the nation’s largest operational provider directory
utility. Created to assist provider organizations and health plans in complying with
California State Bill 137, Symphony helps the largest healthcare organizations in California
standardize and share provider data under a common language. Symphony addresses the
challenges that CMS will find with centralizing provider data – that to present a directory to
a consumer, a uniform picture must be established around the data model and the data
elements reflecting a provider. Symphony does that through a proprietary tuning algorithm
that takes in primary source, payer, and provider data to reach a common understanding
about the providers. It serves as a north star for over 100,000 individual providers and over
700,000 combinations of provider, location, and network in the state of California.
Symphony has successfully proven the feasibility and benefit of a large-scale provider
directory by powering Covered California, California’s Affordable Care Act health insurance
marketplace. Symphony intakes provider data from all 12 Qualified Health Plans (QHPs),
Avail ity.com

applies its tuning algorithms to establish a clear, accurate, and common view of the
California provider marketplace. That cleansed dataset is presented to California
consumers as they shop for care. It allows Consumers to query a searchable directory to
select providers and health plans that meet their care needs. Availity recommends that the
Department and CMS consider replicating this model to establish a singular national
provider directory without adding administrative burden to a provider population already
sharing their data through alternative channels.
Path forward for the Department and CMS:
To address historical challenges and drive meaningful provider uptake, we recommend that
first, the Department and CMS utilize an existing multi-payer provider data intake solution
to reduce complexity and administrative burden, rather than add to it.
Second, we recommend that the collection of provider directory data is coupled with
collection of the data required to properly adjudicate healthcare transactions. From our
experience, providers will engage with the data transmission process when they know that
those data updates will result in a clean claim adjudication process or a fair and timely
prior authorization determination.
Third, CMS should develop its foundational National Provider Directory in a way that
eliminates the burden associated with all exchange of provider data. This involves
establishing a dataset and collection mechanism that can fuel not only a directory, but also
standardized enrollment and credentialing processes. There is a high degree of data
overlap across these processes. However, providers today are constantly tasked with
enrollment, credentialing, and directory refreshes, often requiring teams of FTEs dedicated
solely to this. This disproportionately impacts the smallest and most resource-constrained
providers and the patients they serve. Availity recommends that CMS consider how the
National Provider Directory can be designed against this larger industry problem to multiply
the impact to providers, payers, and patients: Any process, data schema, and data set
should tie across all related processes (e.g., network management, enrollment,
credentialing) to limit administrative burden and duplicative efforts.
Fourth, CMS should consider which data elements will be collected within its provider
directory to meet the recommendations above. With our existing products and customers,
we take a broad approach, as there is no universal data taxonomy standard or
requirements for provider data. Availity understands that CMS may be pursuing specific
outcomes and thus may prioritize certain data elements above others. We believe the most
important categories of provider data to be those that 1) increase transparent access to
quality care; 2) ensure accurate adjudication of claims and other transactions; and 3) make
Avail ity.com

the enrollment and credentialing process an eventless, perpetual process. The data
elements most critical to accomplishing those outcomes are:
1. Increase transparent access to quality care:
a. Provider demographics: Tax ID number(s), NPI, name, professional
certifications, languages spoken
b. Provider location: Service location address, clinic name, scheduling phone
number, office hours & days, accessibility, affiliations and relationships to
other businesses
c. Provider service details: Specialties, services performed at that location,
telehealth availability, patient appointment availability, network participation
2. Ensure accurate adjudication of claims & other transactions:
a. The above data fields
b. Billing information: Billing address, phone number
c. Provider qualifications: Licensure, DEA number, sanction / exclusion
monitoring
3. Eventless enrollment & credentialing:
a. The above data fields
b. Provider qualifications: Educational information, work history
Lastly, during the 6/3 CMS Tech Day, there was discussion of hosting responsibilities. We
believe that a CMS-published directory would provide a level of trust across the consumer
base and healthcare industry - especially if free for searchable consumer utilization - that
could not be replicated by a third party. This is in line with what we have seen in the private
sector. Payers view member experience as a core aspect of their business, and they
recognize the value of an up-to-date provider directory in that experience. We appreciate
that the Department and CMS also recognize the value of providing their members with a
modern consumer experience, and we welcome the opportunity to discuss our
experiences delivering this in more detail.
Data Exchange – HIPAA, Clearinghouses, and Cybersecurity
Regulatory inertia (especially around the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act of 1996’s (“HIPAA”)) continues to prevent meaningful data exchange, increase
administrative expense and waste, and obstruct transformative innovation. This is
particularly true in the treatment of clearinghouses under HIPAA and the chilling effect
innovation has on reducing fraud, waste, and abuse. Regulatory reform is needed to ensure
Avail ity.com

that HIPAA continues to protect patients without being manipulated to entrench
inefficiencies.
HIPAA’s Constraints and the Barrier to Innovate:
The U.S. healthcare system suffers from fragmentation and complexity, with data-sharing
impeded by inconsistent standards, opaque privacy regulations, and outdated governance.
HIPAA was enacted nearly 30 years ago with essential objectives: “to improve portability
and continuity of health insurance coverage in the group and individual markets, to combat
waste, fraud, and abuse in health insurance and health care delivery…[and]…to simplify the
administration of health insurance.”1 However, HIPAA was designed in a pre-digital era and
is no longer sufficient to govern a modern healthcare system, as the technological changes
and challenges presented by today’s healthcare operations have evolved far beyond the
initial legislative scope. Despite significant advances in electronic health records and
infrastructure, HIPAA's limitations result in excessive risk aversion due to fear of
enforcement, unclear boundaries on how patient data may be shared or reused (especially
for legitimate treatment, payment, and healthcare operations), and a failure to reflect
modern cybersecurity best practices for risk-based data protection.
What was meant to serve the patient is increasingly being used to obstruct the very
innovations that would improve patient care, efficiency, and access. HIPAA is now too often
invoked not as a shield for the patient, but as a weapon to block beneficial uses of data.
Healthcare organizations, particularly large incumbents, are using HIPAA as a justification
to hoard vital patient data from use by other regulated entities that could otherwise reduce
administrative costs, enhance care coordination, and inform analytics. The patient is
harmed: Instead of protection, they experience fragmented care, increased cost, potential
fraud, and limited access to their own records, all under the guise of “privacy.”
Despite those challenges, there remains a real and attainable possibility: HIPAA can
protect the patient and reduce fraud, waste, and abuse (FWA) while still enabling
innovation. Within the boundaries of HIPAA, patients can and should benefit from
increased care coordination, better analytical health tools, reduced waste, and smarter
operational systems. These are not mutually exclusive goals.
We believe that HIPAA was created with laudable objectives: to protect patient privacy,
enable portability, and reduce FWA. We welcome the opportunity to revisit HIPAA and its
implementing regulations as a means of finding new or novel ways of accomplishing
HIPAA’s intended purposes: Recognizing the critical role of clearinghouses, restoring HIPAA
1 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
Avail ity.com

as a framework for patient empowerment and innovation (instead of institutional
protectionism), and embracing AI as a tool for administrative relief are essential steps
toward a more affordable, innovative, and responsive health system.
Recognizing Clearinghouses as Covered Entities:
Availity serves as a clearinghouse for millions of providers, health plans, and other
healthcare organizations. HIPAA regulations explicitly name healthcare clearinghouses as
covered entities. Clearinghouses process highly sensitive data and are instrumental in the
administration of care. These entities sit uniquely on both sides of the transaction network
and facilitate the exchange of claims, eligibility, and coordination of benefits data between
payers and providers. Despite this, clearinghouses are subjected to all the obligations of
HIPAA compliance but denied the functional benefits of being treated as fully covered
entities. Instead, due to current HIPAA framework, contractual arrangements imposed by
payers and providers to protect their interest, and legacy business associate agreements,
clearinghouses are treated in practice as business associates. As a result, clearinghouses
are restricted from using data to improve their own systems, or to build tools that could
eliminate duplicative processes and reduce FWA. This dual status under HIPAA is a
contradiction that leads to several damaging consequences:
• Clearinghouses shoulder HIPAA burdens without operational flexibility;
• Clearinghouses are barred from using data for legitimate treatment, payment, or
healthcare operations improvements;
• Clearinghouses are prohibited from aggregating or de-identifying data unless an
explicit grant has occurred from either a payer or provider, even if such aggregation
would benefit the patient’s treatment, payment and / or healthcare operations; and
• Business associate contracts often prohibit use, even in scenarios where the data
use is otherwise lawful and beneficial to the patient and industry.
Several common examples:
• Coverage: HIPAA prohibits a clearinghouse from aggregating data (absent express
permission from a payer) to help identify insurance coverage. The result is provider
confusion and a large industry that works after the patient visit to find coverage.
• AI Use Cases Utilizing De-Identified Data: HIPAA prohibits a clearinghouse from de-
identifying data (absent express permission from a payer or provider). AI models
have demonstrated broad abilities for improving administrative efficiency, but
exploring potential use cases (including use cases for FWA) is frustrated by HIPAA.
• Because clearinghouses receive data as business associates, all their data uses
must be contractually granted. Thus, even if a patient were to consent that data be
shared with a third party, a clearinghouse cannot share that data unless the payer or
Avail ity.com

provider granted the contractual right for the clearinghouse to share data as
requested by the patient. This is the antithesis of patient control over their own data.
We note in all three use cases, the privacy of the patient is not compromised in any
inappropriate manner and that all three use cases would satisfy the payment, treatment
and healthcare operation guardrails.
Healthcare clearinghouses play a unique and powerful role in the digital health ecosystem.
They often operate on both sides of data exchanges. Given their central role in handling
sensitive claims and eligibility data, we believe clearinghouses should be explicitly and
uniformly recognized as HIPAA covered entities, not merely intermediaries. Clearinghouses
should be held to the same standards of accountability, transparency, and compliance as
payers and providers, especially when their activities fall squarely under treatment,
payment, and healthcare operations. Clearinghouses are ideally positioned to innovate
and drive down FWA – they just need the proper guardrails to allow them to do so.
We believe the Department and CMS should formally recognize clearinghouses as covered
entities in both law and practice and allow full utilization of the treatment, payment, and
healthcare operations framework, including allowing aggregation and de-identification
rights. The Department and CMS can and should endorse certified clearinghouses and
hold them to heightened security standards while empowering them to support
administrative simplification and interoperability goals.
Clearinghouse Registration and Security Obligations:
In line with the original goals of HIPAA, and in parallel with expanded clearinghouse
capabilities across treatment, payment, and healthcare operations as covered entities, we
believe that clearinghouses should meet higher standards for security and recovery.
Clearinghouses should be held to higher security expectations, commensurate with their
systemic importance. Such standards would help ensure that clearinghouses are not only
empowered to improve the system, but also held accountable for protecting it. To do this,
we provide the Department and CMS with two recommendations:
A. Mandated Clearinghouse Registration
Formally endorse and certify compliant clearinghouses as trusted conduits in national
data exchange; subject certified clearinghouses to enhanced security, auditability, and
recovery standards, given their systemic importance and exposure risk.
To eliminate the potential abuse of a clearinghouse designation, require that
clearinghouses register with the federal government in a manner similar to our current
National Provider Information Registry.
Avail ity.com

B. Increased Security Standards
Availity supports increased security standards to coincide with its increased
responsibilities within the healthcare ecosystem. Examples of enhanced security controls
the Department and CMS could endorse for certified clearinghouses include:
• Mandatory NIST 800-66/171 or HITRUST certification;
• Increased security requirements and annual independent third-party security
audits; and
• Organizational resiliency.
Benefits of Clearinghouses as Covered Entities:
Sitting at the center of the healthcare ecosystem, Availity is uniquely situated to help
innovate healthcare technology, empower patients, and utilize data in ways that will benefit
all Americans. If the Department and CMS deem clearinghouses as covered entities and
require appropriate security obligations, Availity can provide solutions to several issues
that plague the healthcare industry. Below are select innovations that could be made
possible:
A. Coverage and Payment Innovation
Availity’s position between providers and health plans could be utilized to make
determinations of coverage with patient identifiers and without the need for a coverage
card. While coverage cards would make the determination of coverage easier, Availity
possesses data to identify coverage and / or the means to reach out to nearly every insurer
in the United States and determine whether a patient is covered, by whom, and with what
conditions. Regulatory hurdles and the ambiguity of healthcare clearinghouses as
business associates of other covered entities prohibit Availity from introducing a unified
system of healthcare coverage determinations or coordinating those benefits across plans.
This would remove barriers to patient treatment and coverage while also easing
administrative burdens currently in our system.
B. Payment Innovation and Identification of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA)
As a central repository of healthcare transactions, Availity could work with payers and the
Department to accurately document government healthcare expenditures using a real-
time network. As a part of that effort, Availity and payers could utilize AI and advanced
analytics to improve the industry’s understanding and prevention of FWA patterns and
vulnerabilities.
C. National Provider Directory
Avail ity.com

Availity could be utilized as a national provider directory to connect patients, payers, and
providers. By leveraging data already in administrative workflows (e.g., claims data), a
National Provider Directory could be kept accurate and up-to-date while still reducing
provider burden. See the previous section of our responses for more detail.
D. A National Health Card
Availity could work with EHRs to aggregate and assess broader health outcomes - a report
card on our national health. Against this, the Department and CMS could use their
resources to identify the highest-risk trends and segments, design preventative /
interventional programs, and measure progress of those efforts.
Clearinghouse Definition:
Alongside our belief that clearinghouses should be given additional rights and capabilities,
Availity also supports a more rigorous definition of a healthcare clearinghouse (currently
found at 45 C.F.R. 160.103) that is commensurate with those responsibilities. This
definition, originating in the early days of electronic health data standardization, was
intended to foster administrative efficiency at little-to-no cost for standard transactions.
However, in today’s complex and highly commercialized data ecosystem, the definition
allows a range of third-party intermediaries to functionally operate as clearinghouses with
little-to-no oversight, especially around security and fees. Availity suggests that
clearinghouses be required to meet higher security and disaster recovery standards as well
as size and scope requirements. These increased standards would modernize the
definition to promote transparency, safeguard patient privacy, and ensure that only
qualified, accountable organizations (even those that functionally meet the definition
today) serve as intermediaries in the health information infrastructure.
Medical Policy License Transparency:
Transparency in payer medical policies is fundamental to ensuring fair, accurate, and
timely decisions in healthcare. Payers develop medical policies (sometimes licensing all or
parts of those policies from third parties) that serve as the backbone for determining
coverage, authorization, and reimbursement decisions. These policies often dictate
whether a patient receives access to a certain treatment or service and are used as
explanation for payer denials. It is therefore essential that both patients and providers have
meaningful access to these medical policies. This is particularly true when the medical
policies in question govern essential medical care. Medical policies are not just internal
payer tools; they directly affect clinical care and financial outcomes. Presently, payer
contracts or proprietary claims stretch the bounds of copyright, asserting rights that go
Avail ity.com

beyond what we believe copyright law was intended to protect. This results in a lack of
transparency, innovation, and fair use. When a payer mandates that a policy must be
followed, the policy cannot remain a proprietary document shielded from examination.
When these policies are shared or obtained legally (e.g., through payer's portal, disclosure,
or licensing) there should be reasonable rights to reference and create derivative works.
This may include the development of educational materials, prior authorization tools, or
decision-support systems aimed at improving compliance and clarity for patients and
providers. Current practices that restrict the ability to reuse or adapt these policies under
the guise of copyright law serve only to entrench information asymmetry and reduce
accountability. Once a policy is shared or licensed, there should be no blanket prohibition
on using that information to develop clinical pathways, examine denials, or enhance
transparency.
While the goal is not to undermine legitimate copyright protections, the issue should be
examined by Congress, the Department, and/or CMS to ensure that copyright protections
do not override healthcare transparency and public interest. Specifically, it should be
required that any license to use medical policies also allows use of the medical policy to
make clinical decisions and inform patients and providers of the policy’s components that
were or were not met. Doing so would restore balance between intellectual property rights
and the broader need for open, understandable, and accessible standards of care.
Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) Clarity:
AI holds enormous potential to improve healthcare affordability, detecting/preventing
fraud, and administrative improvements. Yet, HIPAA's ambiguous stance on permissible
uses of health data for model training, prediction, and analysis has created a chilling effect
that restricts healthcare organizations from acting, even for legitimate use cases and
operational optimization. Organizations are routinely barring or delaying the use of AI
(through contract) for legitimate treatment, payment, and healthcare operation functions
due to regulatory uncertainty and enforcement anxiety. This is not a matter of ethics or
safety but a failure of clarity and regulatory alignment.
Availity urges the Department to:
• Issue clear guidance allowing the use of protected health information for AI-enabled
treatment, payment, and healthcare operations, especially with de-identified data;
• Establish pathways for de-identified or limited dataset use in AI model
development, aligned with current HIPAA de-identification standards and bolstered
by risk-based controls; and
Avail ity.com

• Encourage adoption of AI for treatment, payment, and healthcare operations uses,
including administrative simplification, fraud prevention, and quality improvement.
AI offers a powerful set of tools to reduce costs, detect fraud, enhance care delivery, and
streamline administrative tasks. It is not a technical limitation stifling innovation but the
regulatory uncertainty serving as the barrier. Organizations fear that even permitted uses
under HIPAA may result in unpredictable enforcement or contractual disputes. As a result,
patients and payers are deprived of cost-saving innovations that could simplify their
experience and reduce overhead.
Summary:
HIPAA is meant to protect patients’ privacy while enabling healthcare portability, fraud
prevention, and administrative efficiency. It was never intended to block progress; yet
HIPAA has not evolved in alignment with its original intent. HIPAA must now be modernized
to enable secure, ethical, and patient-centered innovation. The healthcare industry is at a
critical juncture: the healthcare system is technologically capable of transformation but is
policy-bound by a framework that has not evolved with innovation. Modernizing HIPAA,
recognizing and securing the role of clearinghouses, and embracing AI with guardrails (not
fear) will lay the foundation for a more affordable, connected, and innovative system.
Conclusion
Thank you for considering our comments on the Health Tech RFI. We welcome the
opportunity to work with the Department to seek greater efficiencies within healthcare and
to collaborate on the path to innovation. If we can ever be of service, please do not hesitate
to reach out to us. We are happy to meet with the Department to discuss our comments or
to participate in any federal committee or program.
Sincerely,
/s/ Russ Thomas
Russ Thomas
Chief Executive Officer
Availity, L.L.C.
Avail ity.com