February 20, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary
Office of the Deputy Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Department of Health and Human Services.
Mary E. Switzer Building; Mail Stop: 7033A
330 C Street S.W.
Washington, DC 20201
Re: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Dr. Keane,
CommonSpirit Health appreciates the opportunity to provide comments to the Assistant
Secretary for Technology Policy and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology (ASTP/ONC) on its request for information (RFI) related to the use of
artificial intelligence (AI) in clinical care. As a nationwide, faith-based, safety-net provider, we
are committed to providing high quality care for the patients in our communities with a special
focus on those who are most vulnerable or underserved. We believe that AI has a role to play in
our care delivery, but it must be approached cautiously and thoughtfully. As one of the nation’s
largest health systems, CommonSpirit has specific experience in buying, using and evaluating
the use of AI tools in clinical care. While some AI tools have been in place for a long time, those
interacting with patients and clinical care are relatively nascent. We are pleased that ASTP/ONC
is taking this opportunity to gather input from a diverse group of stakeholders at the early
stages of technology development to ensure that any new tools used for patient care are safe
and effective.
Our most fundamental recommendation to ASTP/ONC is to create and convene a technical
expertise panel to develop specific transparency, patient safety, product liability, ethics, and
other standards. This panel should include health systems, clinicians, vendors, technology
experts, advocacy organizations, medical ethicists, and regulators. The concepts involved in
clinical care AI are too specific, too important, and too complex to be regulated outside of a
technical expertise panel. As a leader in the field, we offer CommonSpirit experts to participate
in such a panel and aid ASTP/ONC in future rulemaking.

Feb 20, 2026
CommonSpirit Health
RIN 0955−AA13
Secondary to this overarching recommendation of a technical expertise panel, we offer the
following guidelines and protocols we believe ASTP/ONC must follow in any future rulemaking.
Require Robust Transparency
We strongly recommend that ASTP/ONC implement comprehensive transparency
requirements for AI tools used in clinical decision-making. These rules must encompass a
complete reporting of the algorithms and calculations themselves, the specific data sets used
for their training (especially any use of synthetic data), an ongoing monitoring of outcomes, and
a built-in evaluation process for users and patients to provide meaningful feedback to designers
on an AI model’s efficacy and accuracy. Furthermore, this transparency must address known AI
issues, such as “hallucinations,” by providing clear definitions and documentation of testing for
these anomalies. The regulations should include definitions and best practices to ensure data
cleanliness. Finally, as mentioned above, ASTP/ONC should work with a technical expertise
panel to ensure that AI tools used for clinical decision-making are not biased by their data sets
or underlying assumptions. We strongly recommend that regulatory bodies act on the critical
importance of algorithmic and data transparency in clinical health AI tools and commit to a clear
and robust stance on its enforcement.
(We note that the recent proposal in the HTI-5 update would roll back algorithmic transparency
requirements for certified health IT. We seek clarity on whether there are plans to replace or
update this requirement to ensure that the core mechanisms of these AI tools remain
understandable and auditable by the clinical community and regulators.)
To ensure clinical rigor, patient safety, and data privacy, every new AI tool introduced into a
clinical setting should be treated with a similar scrutiny and methodological intensity applied
to a medical device undergoing a clinical trial. This requires full disclosure of the training and
validation data sets, rigorous testing for validity, mandatory assessment of outcomes in a
real-world setting, and ongoing monitoring of oversight (similar to a data safety monitoring
board in clinical research). Only through this level of thorough vetting and continuous
monitoring can the healthcare industry assure that AI tools enhance, rather than compromise,
the quality and efficacy of patient care.
In essence, mandatory and detailed transparency can not be an optional feature—it is a
critical prerequisite for the safe, ethical, and effective deployment of AI tools in medicine.
Without robust transparency requirements into all non-proprietary elements of a clinically
deployed AI tool, health care providers are fundamentally unable to meet their obligations

Feb 20, 2026
CommonSpirit Health
RIN 0955−AA13
concerning patient consent and notice, nor can providers assure patients of the safety and
reliability of the technology being used in their treatment.
Support Patient Privacy
As AI tools become more common in clinical care, providers must help patients feel comfortable
with these tools by ensuring that their data remains private. As a health system, one of our
primary concerns is understanding precisely how AI vendors handle the sensitive protected
health information (PHI) entrusted to them so we can monitor compliance with HIPAA and
other privacy rules. We strongly recommend that any data shared via an AI tool be completely
de-identified before use in training or refining AI models, and that all vendors have
well-defined, enforceable mechanisms for data purging in place once the data has served its
agreed-upon purpose. Without these foundational requirements, healthcare organizations risk
severe erosion of patient confidence and potential data misuse, which could compromise our
core mission of delivering high quality care to all.
Additionally, the expansive and quickly evolving digital health industry poses a significant
challenge to the long-established guardrails of regulations like HIPAA. As healthcare moves
beyond traditional physical settings and into complex digital ecosystems, new tools are
constantly testing the boundaries of protected health information. We urge regulators to
ensure that technological advancement does not outpace ethical responsibility. For example,
current privacy laws primarily place responsibility on the covered entity (i.e. healthcare
organization) for maintaining patient privacy. While this responsibility should not be lessened,
an AI vendor that is not a covered entity currently has little to no legal responsibility to maintain
patient privacy. Extending the same privacy obligations and penalties to AI vendors would
help ensure that patient data is used appropriately. We believe it is imperative that healthcare
leaders and regulators proactively work to ensure that the innovations brought by AI and digital
health do not inadvertently create loopholes that weaken patient privacy and security.
Create Federal Standards
To meet the aforementioned goals, we recommend that regulators create a clear, standardized,
and responsible regulatory framework that is intended to protect patients and providers alike.
We believe that regulators can foster safe and effective adoption of AI tools in clinical care by
creating standards in three key areas: ensuring product efficacy, establishing vendor
accountability, and standardizing data practices across the industry.

Feb 20, 2026
CommonSpirit Health
RIN 0955−AA13
First and foremost, health care patients and providers must be protected from ineffective or
harmful “snake oil” AI solutions. Vendors should be required to provide evidence-based data
proving the clinical effectiveness and usefulness of their products before they are adopted by
healthcare providers. Without this proof of efficacy, providers risk wasting resources on
unvalidated tools, and—more critically—introducing potential harm or bias into patient care
decisions.
Furthermore, we recommend a review of vendor liability laws to align responsibility with
control. If a provider utilizes a sophisticated AI product to guide care—a product that has been
touted as effective and safe when used appropriately—the liability for any harm or bias caused
by the tool itself should fall also to the vendor who developed and tested the product, not
solely the clinician who deployed it. This shared accountability is necessary as vendors currently
possess the exclusive knowledge of an AI tool’s underlying architecture, training data, and
potential failure points. After deployment, vendors must be required to provide immediate
and transparent disclosure of any uncovered bias, potential harm, or negative findings related
to their product as soon as it arises.
Finally, we strongly recommend that regulators create data standards for vendors to ensure
that AI systems are built on interoperable, high-quality information that will lead to reliable
and ethical algorithms. As the industry moves farther in the direction of interoperability,
ASTP/ONC should ensure that AI systems will not stymy or slow this advancement.
Include Health Plans in Regulation
The RFI appears to overlook a critical and increasingly prevalent application of AI in the
healthcare ecosystem: its utilization by health insurance plans and payers. Specifically, there is
no mention or substantive exploration of how health plans are currently deploying AI tools,
particularly predictive models and algorithms, to inform or automate process decisions
regarding the approval or denial of clinical care.
This is a significant omission, as the use of AI in utilization management is already widely in
practice. Payers already are adopting these systems to rapidly process prior authorization
requests, review claims, and predict the necessity or appropriateness of specific medical
services, procedures, or prescriptions. While the intent may be to streamline administrative
burdens and ensure cost-effective care, the deployment of these “black box” systems raises
profound ethical, legal, and patient safety concerns. In addition, these decisions directly impact
care delivery and clinical decisionmaking by choosing which products and procedures are
covered by a patient’s health plan and reimbursable to providers. We recommend that

Feb 20, 2026
CommonSpirit Health
RIN 0955−AA13
ASTP/ONC work with the appropriate regulatory agencies to ensure that health plans and
payers are held to a high standard of quality, transparency, and appropriateness when using
AI tools in utilization management or other decisions that impact patient care.
We appreciate ASTP/ONC’s consideration of our comments. If you have any questions, please
contact me at Rachel.Tanner@CommonSpirit.org. We look forward to working with you as part
of a future technical panel and in future rulemaking.
Thank you,
/s/
Rachel Tanner, M.Jur.
System Vice President, Regulatory Affairs
CommonSpirit Health is one of the largest nonprofit health systems with 150,000 employees and
over 25,000 physicians and advanced practice clinicians and 45,000 nurses serving individuals
and communities across 25 states in more than 137 hospitals and 2,300 care sites, including
myriad long-term care facilities, home health organizations, clinics, and community service
organizations. As a faith-based system, CommonSpirit seeks to create healthy communities with
a special focus on those individuals who are medically and/or socially vulnerable.