 1812 N. Moore St. • Suite 1705 • Arlington, V irginia 2220 9 • evolent.com June 16, 2025 Dr. Mehmet Oz Administrator , Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 -1850 Dr. Thomas Keane Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy / National Coordinator for Health IT U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Ave SW Washington, DC 20201 Re: Evolent Comments on the Health Technology Ecosystem Request for Information [CMS -0042 -NC] Dear Drs. Oz and Keane: The rising cost of health care is unsustainable, and we at Evolent believe every patient deserves higher quality care at lower costs. Evolent build s financially aligned partnerships with providers and health plans to achieve these outcomes. Working across specialties and primary care, we seek to improve the care journey – more connected, higher quality, more efficient – for patients diagnosed with cancer, cardiovascular diseases, musculoskeletal disorders, and other conditions. Through these partnerships and with our deep clinical and operational expertise and solutions , Evolent is committed to delivering more value for the health care dollar for patients and communities, as well as government payers and program s. Evolent appreciates the opportunity to comment on the health technology ecosystem RFI issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and HHS Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP) / Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT (ONC). The health technology ecosystem and related federal policies have come a long way since the early days of “meanin gful use ” incentives intended to drive adoption of electronic health record ( EHR ) systems. However , it still has a long way to g o to reflect true interoperability and seamless data e xchange to support the high est quality, most effic ient health care delivery possible , with lower burden for prov iders and payers and more meanin gful engagement by pat ients. 
 1812 N. Moore St. • Suite 1705 • Arlington, V irginia 2220 9 • evolent.com Health techno logy policy and standards should foster innovation and should ensure the correct data is available when needed for decision making, while reduc ing the reliance on legacy systems and manual mechanisms to achieve these goals. Below we have provide d our feedback in response to RFI questions in the categories of: Prov iders (PR), Payers (PA), Technology Developers , Data Providers, and Networks (TD), and Value -Based Care Organizations (VB). S everal an swers are relevant to mu ltiple categories. ___________________________________________________________________________ PR-8. Data Exchange If CMS can leverage direct b ulk Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR ) data exports from e lectronic health record ( EHR) systems, it would significantly simplify the process for clinical quality data exchange and reduce the burden on providers and value -based care entities su ch as accountable care organizations ( ACOs ). However, it is equally important to ensure that data accuracy and performance are transparently reflected – ideally through a portal – to help avoid any year -end last-minute surprises . PA-2. Information Blocking and TD -4. Technical Standards and Certification As CMS seeks to encourage payers to accelera te implementation and utilization of application programming interfaces ( APIs) for patients, providers, and other payers , it is important t o ensure standards are not being implemented in a manner where they are highly subject to interpretation , which could create “ last mile ” chal lenges . This can be facilitated through shared testing / validation infrastructure and , for the most critical APIs , through certification programs. PA-4. Information Blocking and TD -5. Technical Standards and Certification Centralizing and standardizing a single source of truth for provider information (as through a national provider directory ) would reduce the challenges with handling what is by nature non- variable data but in practice faces variability in tran sactions from multiple trading parties, with multiple specifications, in multiple different formats and exchange methods defined by the trading parties. PA-5. Information Blocking and TD -4. Technical Standards and Certification CMS and ASTP/ONC could reduce the variability of access to EHR data through introduction of the initially proposed (HTI -2 NPRM) EHR certification program expansion into the electronic prior authorization API sets. 
 1812 N. Moore St. • Suite 1705 • Arlington, V irginia 2220 9 • evolent.com TD-16. Data Exchange Data exchange should be either facilitated through a scaled centralized gateway model or through standardized federated mechanisms. Use of either of these models is critical to avoid introducing new specifications without addressing the current pain points with point -to-point exchange models – where they are subject to interpretation at the last mile, creating burden for building, configuring, validating, and maintaining a broad set of point -to-point exchange mechanisms. VB-1. Digital Health Adoption Value -based care organizations taking significant performance -based risk have strong, aligned incentives to drive value – better care at lower cost – for the patients they serve. In this context , digital health management products and vendors are evaluated based upon their ability to contribute to these goals; that is, their potential to have a strong return on investment. Product adoption may lag where the overarching financial incentives are weaker, where there is limited ROI potential, or where reimbursement is lacking . Another challenge for value -based care organizations is that p atients most likely to use digital products tend to be those with lower health risk / need and subsequent expenditures. CMS and ASTP/ONC could increas e their focus on provider and patient outreach and education efforts to support digital product engagement across all patient populations. Patients and care givers might prefer simpli city, and fewer digital health solutions that meaning fully help them na vigate their care needs. VB-2. Digital Health Adoption To further integrate key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement and patient engagement into alternative payment models (APMs) , CMS might consider applying a reimbursement model to support digital health adoption, similar to the CMS Innovation Center’s GUIDE model which creates a per - patient, per- month care management payment that replaces traditional fee -for- service (FFS) payment for certain existing Medicare physician fee schedule services. In the GUIDE model, these services include annual wellness visits, chronic and principal care management, transitional care management, advance care planning, and technology -based check -ins. In general, Congress and CMS have significantly expanded Medicare fee -for-service billing code s in recent years , which is well intentioned but may not be the best use of federal dollars as the cost and quality impacts of billing for these services in a FFS context is variable or unknown. Payment for these types of services may be better 
 1812 N. Moore St. • Suite 1705 • Arlington, V irginia 2220 9 • evolent.com directed within the context of APMs and performance -based risk models and programs (providing they do not adversely count against APM performance year expenditures relative to expenditures reflected in benchmarks and outside of APM s). VB-4. Digital Health Adoption Essential data types needed for successful participation in value -based care arrangements includes all files available from CMS currently plus patient phone numbers needed for direct outreach (with the appropriate patient protections such as data sharing opt out) . Access to timely admission, discharge, and transfer notification (ADT) feeds – both from hospitals and skilled nursing facilit ies – is also needed to support value -based care. While certain providers are required to provide ADT data under current regulations , there remain significant gaps today. Value -based care organizations must often work with multiple vendors to access this data, and mandated entities do not always provide it to state health information exchanges (HIEs). CMS and ASTP/ONC should broaden and enforce timely ADT data sharing as part of CMS Conditions of Participation (CoP) and information blocking requirements to ensure all value -based care organizations and their participating providers can consistently receive timely ADT feeds – ideally through EHR systems and HIEs without requiring the use of third - party vendors. VB-11. Technical Standards , interoperability challenges in value -base d care The move to all -payer electronic clinical quality measure (eCQM) reporting for Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) accountable care organizations (ACOs) is burdensome and costl y, as most ACOs have multiple EHR systems and even different implementations across the same platform s. As these new methods of quality reporting become mandatory per current regulations , the capabilities required to implement them should be part of the base certified electronic health record technology (CEHRT) definition. That is, health IT vendors should not be charging providers extra fees – often charg ed by number of participating provider s or attributed patient s – to turn on mandatory quality reporting functionalities. While in theory all -payer eCQM reporting should be seamless in a world where we have achieved interoperability, in practice ACO reporting now requires burdensome collection, aggregation, and de -duplication of QRDA files into formats required for successful reporting . Some EHRs cannot run QRDAs or are not supporting required measures. Our Evolent Care Partners ACO has recommended that MSSP return to reporting on a sample of Medicare ACO assigned patients – for whom we are taking on accountability for costs and outcomes in our MSSP agreement with CMS – through 
 1812 N. Moore St. • Suite 1705 • Arlington, V irginia 2220 9 • evolent.com the CMS Web Interface. This method offers greater reliability for measuring Medic are ACO quality performance and is significantly less burdensome. CMS should also continue to provide flexibility through multiple quality reporting options for ACOs and applying the higher score when multiple mechanisms are used. VB-14. Technical Standards Implementing digital identity credentials could support value -based care delivery and outcomes as well as health IT interoperability (e.g., less need for de- duplication) . However, credentials must reliably work for ALL beneficiaries to ensure there are no adverse impacts for access to health care. There should be back -up methods, strong patient privacy protections, and excellent consumer support, keeping in mind extra supports needed for high -risk, high -need populations served within the Medicare and Medica id programs (e.g., dually eligible individuals ). VB-15. Technical Standards A nationwide provider directory of Bulk FHIR endpoints has the potential to reduce the technical burden of managing fragmented data, enable real-time access for value -based care entities to support better patient outcomes, and enhance claims data transparency. Such solutions must use aligned data definitions across payers to reduce administrative complexity. Incorporating elements like security, identity verification, and endpoint status will further strengthen the effectiveness of this directory. Thank you again for the opportunity to comment on thes e important topics. We look forward to working with you and your teams to impr ove the health of nation, enabled by an optimized health technology ecosyst em. Sincerely, Rob Cruz Chief Technology Officer Ellen Ginman Senior Vice President, Evolent Primary Care Ashley Ridlon Vice President, Health Policy 