ISSN : 2229-5089
Vol 11 - Issue 1 - January-December 2020
Journal of
Pathology
Informatics
Publication of the Association for Pathology Informatics
www.jpathinformatics.org
Journal
of
Pathology
Informatics
•
Volume
11
•
Issue
1
•
January-December
2020
•
Pages
1-***

Original Article
Payment Reform in the Era of Advanced Diagnostics, Artificial
Intelligence, and Machine Learning
James Sorace1
1Retired Medical Officer U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, D.C., USA
Submitted: 23-Oct-2019 Revised: 21-Nov-2019 Accepted: 24-Dec-2019 Published: 21-Feb-2020
Abstract
Health care is undergoing a profound transformation driven by an increase in new types of diagnostic data, increased data sharing enabled
by interoperability, and improvements in our ability to interpret data through the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Paradoxically, we are also discovering that our current paradigms for implementing electronic health-care records and our ability to create new
models for reforming the health-care system have fallen short of expectations. This article traces these shortcomings to two basic issues. The
first is a reliance on highly centralized quality improvement and measurement strategies that fail to account for the high level of variation and
complexity found in human disease. The second is a reliance on legacy payment systems that fail to reward the sharing of data and knowledge
across the health-care system. To address these issues, and to better harness the advances in health care noted above, the health-care system
must undertake a phased set of reforms. First, efforts must focus on improving both the diagnostic process and data sharing at the local level.
These efforts should include the formation of diagnostic management teams and increased collaboration between pathologists and radiologists.
Next, building off current efforts to develop national federated research databases, providers must be able to query national databases when
information is needed to inform the care of a specific complex patient. In addition, providers, when treating a specific complex patient, should
be enabled to consult nationally with other providers who have experience with similar patient issues. The goal of these efforts is to build a
health‑care system that is funded in part by a novel fee‑for‑knowledge‑sharing paradigm that fosters a collaborative decentralized approach
to patient care and financially incentivizes large‑scale data and knowledge sharing.
Keywords: Artificial intelligence, fee‑for‑knowledge sharing, health‑care reform, improved diagnosis, interoperability, payment models
I facilitating the storage and retrieval of medical information at
ntroductIon
an unprecedented scale.[3] Finally, we are witnessing growth in
We are witnessing a golden age in health care as new diagnostic
the field of AI/ML which holds promise in the discovery and
modalities coupled with artificial intelligence and machine
application of new medical knowledge.[4]
learning (AI/ML) improve our understanding of disease and
our ability to care for patients. This era is unique in that we
W A W n ?
are experiencing innovation in three synergistic areas: new here re e oW
data types, new data sources, and novel actionable information While progress in these fields is encouraging, our current
through data manipulation. First, an explosion in diagnostic experience both in the implementation of electronic health-care
data provides fundamentally new types of information. These records (EHRs) and in health-care system redesign has
data include not only the familiar “omics” and imaging data been disappointing. First, the current generation of EHRs
categories (although greatly extended), but they also include
entirely new data types that are often generated in the patient’s
Address for correspondence: Dr. James Sorace,
environment through cell phone and wearable technologies.[1,2]
8620 Valleyfield Road, Lutherville, Maryland 21093, USA.
These new data types may be among the most informative as E‑mail: jamessorace1@gmail.com
they offer a hitherto unavailable window into the patient’s
functional phenotype outside of the health-care system. Second,
This is an open access journal, and articles are distributed under the terms of the Creative
we are witnessing a rapid growth in data interoperability that is
Commons Attribution‑NonCommercial‑ShareAlike 4.0 License, which allows others to
remix, tweak, and build upon the work non‑commercially, as long as appropriate credit
Access this article online is given and the new creations are licensed under the identical terms.
Quick Response Code: For reprints contact: reprints@medknow.com
Website:
www.jpathinformatics.org
How to cite this article: Sorace J. Payment reform in the era of advanced
diagnostics, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. J Pathol Inform
2020;11:6.
DOI:
10.4103/jpi.jpi_63_19 Available FREE in open access from: http://www.jpathinformatics.org/text.
asp?2020/11/1/6/278926
© 2020 Journal of Pathology Informatics | Published by Wolters Kluwer - Medknow 1

J Pathol Inform 2020, 1:6 http://www.jpathinformatics.org/content/11/1/6
emphasized structured data entry during provider encounters and knowledge sharing. The goal of these changes is not only to
without sufficient consideration to consequences, such as improve direct patient care but also to accelerate the adoption
the effect of real‑time data entry on the physician/patient of advanced diagnostic technologies, interoperability, and
relationship.[5] Furthermore, interoperability across these when appropriate AI/ML.
systems, as well as with important diagnostic systems such
as laboratory information systems and image archiving and t he c omplexIty of h umAn d IseAse And the
communication systems, has been more difficult to achieve
c r p
oncept of Are AtIents
than expected.[6]
Humans are extremely complex organisms. Each of us consists
Second, it has proven difficult within the US health‑care
of approximately 30 trillion cells (each with 3 billion base
system to implement new models of care that achieve the
pairs of DNA) and an even greater number of other organisms
twin goals of cost savings and improved quality of care.
of enormous genetic diversity.[13] As a result, we are unique,
The experience of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid
and unfortunately, current models for health-care delivery and
Innovation (CMMI) confirms that effective health-care
quality measurement woefully underestimate the complexity
system reform is challenging. Since its creation in 2011 by the
of individual patient variation.
Affordable Care Act, CMMI has funded numerous “models
of care” in a broad range of categories.[7] However, as of this Studies have begun to measure the extent of this complexity.
One example is a previously published study of the distribution
writing, only two models have been certified by the actuary
of multiple comorbidities in the Medicare population (32
of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)
million people) using Medicare claims data from 2008.[14] This
as saving money while providing equal or improved quality
study calculated the number of disease combinations (DCs)
of care.[8] Similarly, in May of 2018, the General Accounting
in terms of CMS’s hierarchical condition categories (HCCs).
Office reported that only 4 of 37 advanced payment models
The HCC system used in this study grouped approximately
reduced cost and increased quality.[9] Another study of
3000 ICD-9-CM codes (selected based on increase 12-month
CMMI’s Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Initiative
prospective expense) into 70 HCC categories. Although the
for Medical Conditions concluded that the initiative “was not
HCC system is too coarsely granular to accurately describe
associated with significant changes in Medicare payments,
the disease state of an individual complex patient, this level
clinical complexity, length of stay, emergency department use,
was chosen because finer levels of coding (e.g. individual
hospital readmission, or mortality.”[10]
ICD-9-CM codes) cause almost the entire complex population
Third, our current ability to measure the quality of clinical to become unique. As shown in Table 1, four groups, ranked
care is inadequate. For example, 63% of physicians report that in order of increased patient complexity, were identified.
current quality measures do not capture the quality of the care The first two groups contain the majority (68%) of patients.
they provide, even as physician practices spend an estimated The third group, representing most of the cost (79%), has an
$15.4 billion annually to report measures. In a recent review, average national cell size of patients with identical HCCs of
conducted by the American College of Physicians, of 86 approximately five individuals. The fourth group (a subset of
measures, relevant for an ambulatory medicine practice and the third) consists of about 1.66 million beneficiaries with a
on the 2017 QPP list, 37% were valid, 35% were invalid, and unique HCC combination (i.e., only one beneficiary has the
28% were of uncertain validity.[11] More distressingly, it has given HCC combination). These beneficiaries account for 35%
been known since a 2009 publication authored by individuals of expenditures. See Table 2 for examples of specific DCs.[14]
at CMS that “relatively few primary care physician practices Finally, a follow-up study demonstrated that the national
are large enough to reliably measure 10% relative differences distribution of DCs changes significantly over time with new
in common measures of quality and cost performance among combinations constantly emerging.[15]
fee-for-service Medicare patients.”[12]
Our current approach to this level of complexity is to ignore it
A central theme of this article is that these shortcomings and rely on measurement and quality improvement approaches
are the result of false assumptions that underestimated the
complexity of human disease while applying a centralized
Table 1: Four groups of patient complexity
organizational model to quality improvement problems that
Group Percentage Percentage Estimated National
require a crowdsourced knowledge-sharing environment.
of of Beneficiary Cell
Humans are far more complex and diverse than manmade
Beneficiaries Expenditures Size
objects such as cars, and even when a human design flaw is
1. No HCC 35 6 Not applicable
scientifically understood, there is no assembly line on which
2. 100 most 33 15 106,000
to implement revised designs or dealerships to handle recalls.
prevalent DCs
Similarly, the health-care delivery system itself is very complex
3. Remaining 32 79 5
and resistant to change. This does not mean that the current 2,072,294 DCs
efforts are entirely useless, but rather that we need a new model 4. 1,658,233 5.1 35 1
where financial incentives emphasize shared problem‑solving Unique DCs
2 Journal of Pathology Informatics

J Pathol Inform 2020, 1:6 http://www.jpathinformatics.org/content/11/1/6
the significance of these findings may refer to a follow‑up
Table 2: Example disease combinations. Disease
white paper.[19]
combinations are ranked by prevalence listing disease
combinations 1 through 5 and 96 through 100. Adapted
t f c A
from[14] he AIlure of urrent pproAches
Long-tailed distributions, as opposed to normal distributions,
DC Number of HCC(s) describing the DC
Rank Beneficiaries (%) lack useful measures of either the mean of the population
or its variance. They greatly complicate the development
1 1,667,891 (5.17647) 19_Diabetes without complication
2 764,522 (2.37277) 10_Breast, prostate, colorectal and of useful practice guidelines and clinical measures for
other cancer complex patient populations, and this explains the challenges
3 723,760 (2.24626) 108_COPD in measure development discussed above. Significantly,
4 610,943 (1.89612) 105_Peripheral vascular disease the studies discussed above concluded that less common
5 531,536 (1.64968) 92_Specified heart arrhythmias diseases, in aggregate, are important drivers of comorbidities
96 19,237 (0.05970) 27_Chronic hepatitis and expenditures, and explain the challenges physicians face
97 19,196 (0.05958) 54_Schizophrenia and 108_COPD when caring for specific patients. Even the most experienced
98 18,806 (0.05837) 80_Congestive heart failure and
physicians are constantly seeing new presentations and
92_Specified heart arrhythmias and
combinations of comorbidities. For example, assuming there
131_Renal failure
99 18,754 (0.05820) 101_Cerebral palsy, other paralytic are approximately 72,000 primary care providers,[12] then for
syndromes the most prevalent DC [Table 2], there are 23 beneficiaries per
100 18,643 (0.05786) 38_Rheum arthritis and inflammatory provider, whereas for the 100th most prevalent DC [Table 2],
connective tissue disease and 55_Major there are 0.26 beneficiaries per provider.
depressive, bipolar, paranoid disorders
HCCs: Hierarchical condition categories, DCs: Disease combinations, Not even the largest health-care networks have adequate
COPD: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease data to attempt to optimize individual care for many patients,
and the “data hording” that characterizes the behavior of
that focus on prevalent disease states. This approach has serious many medical institutions (e.g. academic medical centers)
limitations. For example, restricting analysis to the 20 most is counterproductive. As presented in Table 1, the average
prevalent of the 70 HCCs still yields 53,476 DCs covering 40% cell size for rare patients in the long tail of the distribution
of the population and 27% of expenditures. When added with is approximately 5 nationally, and these patient clusters
the results of beneficiaries with no HCC [Table 1, Group 1], account for nearly 80% of expenditures. Health reform
this prevalence-based strategy misses 25% of the population efforts must accept the fact that “rare patients” with complex
and 67% of expenditures.[14] combinations of disease are numerous and expensive. Current
quality measures that rely on top–down centralized planning
Twin studies offer another way of exploring individual
and measurement of prevalent diseases are not designed to
disease variation. Specifically, monozygotic (MZ) twins are
address this issue, are often burdensome, and because they
expected to have reduced variation, or increased correlation,
are inconsistent with the statistical properties of long-tailed
in disease states due to their near genetic identity and shared
distributions, cannot be significantly improved through greater
family environment. Another published study quantified
the role of heredity in the diseases found in the Medicare funding or better implementation. Novel solutions will be
population using a novel methodology that compared MZ required moving forward.
twins to dizygotic (DZ) twins while also constructing unrelated
The US health‑care system must move toward a decentralized
demographically matched control pairs (MCPs) for comparison
crowdsourced environment that enables the collaborative care
to both twin sets.[16] This analysis revealed that MZ twin pairs
of the numerous small clusters of patients which confront it.
shared 6.5% more HCCs than their MZ‑MCP (26.3% vs.
Ideally, such a system would encourage providers to perform
19.8%) whereas DZ twins shared 3.8% more HCCs than their
national-level searches across a high-dimensional data space
DZ‑MCP (25.6% vs. 21.8%) with P < 0.001 for both results.
that would enable a patient to be mapped to a cluster of
While these findings may appear lower than expected, they
similar patients as defined by a wide range of clinical criteria.
are in line with other studies reported in the literature.[17,18]
For example, in addition to searching based on patterns of
Thus, within the limits of the twin study, heredity plays a
comorbidities, searches may be run to find similar patterns
surprisingly small role in the chronic diseases found in the
of cancer mutations, antibiotic resistance profiles, or patients
Medicare population. Patients, including family members, are
with rare diseases. As such, a system must rely on a useful
very individual in their pattern of comorbidities.
clustering of the population, and it must also prioritize the
In summary, these studies found that there is no average or accurate diagnosis of individuals. The desire to optimize
typical Medicare patient. Instead, Medicare beneficiaries are treatment will encourage patients and their providers to
characterized by a complex “long‑tailed” population of DCs exchange data needed to implement this approach. Currently,
each of which has a small cell size even on a national level of the failure of the health-care system to provide a venue for
data aggregation. Readers interested in learning more about data exchange encourages patients to seek information through
Journal of Pathology Informatics 3

J Pathol Inform 2020, 1:6 http://www.jpathinformatics.org/content/11/1/6
social media. This undermines the value providers offer their numerous other health‑care problems that involve finding
patients and encourages behaviors that place confidential patterns in high-dimensional data. These may include, for
medical information at risk. While “data hording” characterizes example, the diagnosis of mental illness from patterns of
the current health-care market, ultimately, even the largest cell phone speech,[1] the calculation of disease networks, and
academic health‑care systems will respond to novel financial predictive modeling.[23,24] Thus, it is likely that AI/ML will play
incentives discussed below. a role in future health care in a broad range of technologies
and settings. However, these systems may require careful
I d monitoring to protect patients from errors.
mprovIng IAgnosIs
The success of a crowdsourced information system designed
s c c I
upportIng lInIcAl ommunIcAtIon And mproved
to support the complex queries described above will depend on
the accuracy of its diagnostic data for at least 3 reasons. First, d IAgnosIs
searching for complex combinations of comorbidities will
To address the observations discussed above, effective health
require that each individual disease was correctly diagnosed.
reform must support increased communications and data
Second, as patients age, it will be necessary to determine if new
sharing. Specifically, providers caring for rare patients must,
symptoms are the result of the progression of known diseases
when appropriate, be able to search nationally for similar patients
or the manifestation of a new one. Finally, we may discover
and consult with their providers. Fortunately, much work has
correlations and even common etiologies between disease
already been done on HIT solutions that support this use case.
states that were previously thought to be distinct, thus changing
For example, considerable work already exists in developing
our categorization of disease. Thus, over time, the same set of
federated models of data to support collaborative clinical
data on the same patient might be interpreted differently based
research, and these may potentially be adopted to find similar
on our improved scientific understanding.
sets of patients to inform direct patient care. Examples include
Unfortunately, diagnostic errors are far too common in our the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute and the
health‑care system to effectively support the treatment of Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics effort.[25,26]
rare patient clusters. For example, a landmark 2015 Institute These efforts may be extended to support the direct patient care
of Medicine (IOM) report, entitled “Improving Diagnosis in of the rare patient clusters discussed above (i.e., “find patients
Health Care,” documented concerning rates of misdiagnosis like mine”), thus offering a new level of clinical decision
and made numerous recommendations for improvement.[20] support based on the real-time “nearest neighbor” analysis of the
Moving forward, it is imperative that health reform efforts “high-dimensional patient space” of large-scale populations. In
prioritize correct and timely diagnosis as a major goal and addition, advances in telemedicine have the potential to enable
begin to implement reimbursement mechanisms that reduce remote consultation and care coordination. One current example
diagnostic errors.[21] Similarly, it will become increasingly of this may be Project ECHO.[27] Project ECHO is a national
important to reward technologies that improve the scientific telehealth model for rural care that provides video clinics
basis of diagnosis. Reimbursement will need to be provided between specialists and community providers which focus on
not only for the improved molecular categorization of complex clinical populations.
malignant disease, for example, but also for technologies that
In summary, our current payment models are a legacy artifact
improve general knowledge of disease networks and disease
and are not optimized to apply our scientific or technical
progression. This also will require a set of health information
advances to further the care of the numerous patient subgroups
technologies (HITs) and payment reforms which facilitate an
that compose the actual population. Specifically, there is a
increasingly collaborative health-care system.
great need for new payment models that improve information
and knowledge exchange across the use cases discussed above
A I m l
rtIfIcIAl ntellIgence And AchIne eArnIng while supporting the implementation of advanced diagnostic
It is not this article’s intention to review the field of AI/ML technologies and their associated data resources.
in health care or to characterize it as central to the reform of
Moving forward, what set of payment reforms should be
direct patient care (although over time it may prove to be).
considered and how might they be implemented? As a straw
Of note, at least two areas of synergy should exist between
man, this article proposes a two‑stage solution. The first will
a health-care system based on nationally distributed data
be to improve the quality of diagnostic data and diagnostic
and knowledge sharing and AI/ML. The first is the ability
workflows at the local level by implementing a new diagnostic
to find large‑scale data sets to support the development and
payment model (DPM). The second stage will involve the
training of AI/ML-based systems. The second is the need
national sharing of data and knowledge between institutions
to share information across providers so that the safety of
by implementing novel fee-for-knowledge-sharing (FKS)
AI/ML systems can be monitored as they are exposed to novel
payment reforms.
data sets and operating environments. Currently, AI/ML is
showing promise in image-based specialties such as radiology Stage 1: Diagnostic payment models
and pathology.[22] However, AI/ML may find application in First, given the current state of our HIT and EHR installed base,
4 Journal of Pathology Informatics

J Pathol Inform 2020, 1:6 http://www.jpathinformatics.org/content/11/1/6
there is an immediate need to improve communications and as opposed to sharing within a given provider group (which
the quality of clinical data at the local level with the goal of is the target of a DPM) or for a service provided to a specific
enabling interoperable access to standardized data nationally. patient (the goal of our current fee-for-service system). FKS
This infrastructure should avoid the mistakes made in programs payments would be structured so that a provider group only
such as those associated with CMS’s Meaningful Use program. receives an FKS payment when it responds to a query from an
For example, it is particularly important to eliminate the outside group. It should be noted that FKS does not propose a
barriers that obstruct the free flow of information between centralized government repository of patient data. Under FKS,
pathology, laboratory medicine, radiology, and other sources patient information will continue to be held by the patient’s
of diagnostic information in order to optimize diagnostic local provider.
workflows. A recent publication has made significant proposals
This payment structure is required to support the main goal of
to address these needs including:[21]
FKS, which is to replace the current system in which providers
1. Changing the Medicare fee schedule to include billing
diagnose and treat patients in an isolated environment that is
codes for improved communications between pathology,
uncoupled from the information available from the health-care
radiology, and diagnostic management teams
system. The goal of FKS is to empower the members of the
2. Reducing documentation barriers and providing greater
health‑care team to find and share, in near real time, improved
reward for cognitive work
solutions to their specific challenges without overreliance on
3. Making accountable care organizations responsible for
traditional clinical guidelines maintained by a centralized
diagnostic timeliness and accuracy
authority. This decentralization of authority, also known as
4. Mandating that condition-based alternative payment
“power to the edges,” is a general management principle
models (e.g. cancer or end-stage renal disease) assume
that was initially applied to military operations but has found
the risk of correct diagnosis.
applicability in business and other environments.[30] FKS, if
One opportunity to advance these recommendations would properly implemented, would provide the financial incentive
be to propose changes to the fee-for-service system to the for the development of a new generation of clinical decision
Physician-Focused Payment Model Technical Advisory support and collaborative health-care tools.
Committee (PTAC).[28] The Secretary of Health and Human
Fee‑for‑knowledge‑sharing implementation
Services (HHS) is required to respond to models forwarded
How might FKS be implemented and what safeguards would
by PTAC, and models approved by the Secretary can be
be needed to insure it improved health care globally while
considered for future development.[29] Such a PTAC proposal
not being abused? First and most importantly, the queries and
would be a DPM. A DPM is a necessary intermediate step
patient clusters on which these payments are allowed would
to enable the national implementation of standards-based
be defined by a neutral third party (i.e., neither payor nor
communications and standardized structured data needed to
provider) which would serve as a national clearinghouse by
support improved diagnostics at the local level as well as to
offering appropriate services including:
provide the ability to participate in federated national databases
1. Serving as a center for curating the standards and data
at a later point in time. DPM payments should only be in place
models needed to support DPM and FKS models of care
for a limited length of time (e.g., 10 years) and should target the
2. Serving as the central communication hub for submitting
implementation of both specific diagnostic technologies (e.g.,
and executing federated queries
advanced genomic and proteomic diagnostics as well as digital
3. Adjudicating payments for FKS claims and providing
pathology) and national HIT interoperability standards.
a framework that allows data-sharing agreements to be
Stage 2: Fee‑for‑knowledge sharing enforced
While a DPM is a prerequisite, it will not enable the large-scale 4. Sponsoring grants, contracts, and competitions to select
national knowledge sharing required to support care of the rare a set of algorithms each of which would calculate patient
patient populations described above. This will require further clusters for a variety of uses (e.g. similar molecular
payment reforms based on FKS that fosters new types of profiles, common patterns of comorbidities, and the
innovative health‑care solutions. FKS must provide financial presence of rare diseases).
incentives for two use cases. First, when a specific patient
Different provider groups would then be rewarded for sharing
presents with a complex problem, the patient’s providers
both data and knowledge with one another (thus eliminating
must be able to query federated databases to see if others have
self-referral as a mechanism to commit fraud). Furthermore,
encountered similar findings. Organizations responding with
before a provider group would be allowed to qualify for FKS
information would be reimbursed through a micropayment
payments, it would first have to demonstrate DPM capabilities.
for information fee schedule. Second, once the results to the
query are returned, there may be a need for human-to-human It might be argued that FKS will amount to a new set of
knowledge sharing and group problem-solving. Payments expensive payments that will drive up the cost of care.
for these activities might be based on a consultation fee for While this is a risk, there are ways of mitigating it. FKS may
a complex office visit. In both cases, these payments are for be combined with managed care payment systems where
knowledge and data sharing among different provider groups all expenses for the direct care of specific patients would
Journal of Pathology Informatics 5

J Pathol Inform 2020, 1:6 http://www.jpathinformatics.org/content/11/1/6
be capitated as is current practice. However, the various Star” in the development of the HIT infrastructure needed to
managed care organizations could earn an FKS bonus by implement FKS-based payment reforms.
agreeing to share data and information with one another. In
Fee‑for‑knowledge‑sharing barriers and opportunities
this setting, FKS payments could be viewed as an adjunct
Many readers may view FKS as an unattainable goal pointing
to traditional risk adjustment payments. In designing such
to prior experiences with meaningful use and other attempts
a system, some funds would be withheld for FKS payments
at health reform. While this viewpoint is understandable,
and placed in a centralized repository. Each managed care
several other factors are relevant. First, as discussed
organization would receive an allotment from this fund that
above, the technical implementation of FKS is built upon
is adjusted for the size and risk level of its patient population
two use cases that are maturing. The first is the ability to
which it could spend on FKS queries to other managed care
search large-scale federated databases for patients sharing
groups. It would be free to prioritize its use of these funds
specific sets of characteristics. The second is the ability of
to maximize the cost‑effectiveness and quality of its patient
patients and providers to communicate with one another
care. FKS payments would be structured so that the provider
using telemedicine-based collaborative software. Thus, the
group only receives a payment when it responds to a query
technical elements that underpin FKS are increasingly within
from an outside provider group (i.e., a provider cannot buy its
reach. Even with partial data matching between patients, it
own information). Such a hybrid system would address a key
may be possible to achieve a level of useful consultations.
patient concern impeding the adoption of managed care more
More importantly, FKS solves the principle problem that
generally, namely that managed care systems are associated
has limited the effectiveness of previous efforts in that it
with narrow provider networks which limit the ability of
provides a mechanism for providers to attempt to optimize
complex patients to benefit from consultation with a broader
the care of a specific patient rather than using systems that
range of knowledgeable providers. It should also be noted that
make oversimplified false assumptions regarding what the
managed care systems would find that the information made
care should be, or leave the provider to figure it out without
available to them through FKS will enable more cost‑effective
assistance. Thus, FKS is an approach that is based on the
treatments and higher quality, thus potentially improving the
reality of the disease distribution found in the population as
use of budget and patient satisfaction. Finally, setting FKS
opposed to an idealized version of what health‑care experts
payments at a level that would influence profitability will
think we can solve.
improve the rate and depth of knowledge sharing across the
health-care enterprise and provide an economic incentive to FKS also addresses a current failure in the health-care data
end information blocking. CMS’s Medicare Advantage Plans market in which incentives based on selling data for research
offer a possible environment in which to implement a national or marketing purposes discourage the free flow of information
clearinghouse as described above to develop models of care between institutions. In contrast, FKS could become a
that develop and test these concepts. disruptive force as it expands the information market to include
payments for the care of rare patient groups. With appropriate
Fee‑for‑knowledge sharing and rare diseases
data use restrictions, it should also be possible to preserve the
One initial way of implementing the advanced payment
originating institution’s research rights as well.
models discussed above is to focus on patients with rare
diseases. The information requirements for caring for One of the greatest opportunities presented by the payment
patients with a rare disease closely parallel the requirements reforms outlined in this article is to restructure traditional
for caring for the rare patient clusters discussed above. They diagnostic workflows. The current system is characterized by
often occur in isolation or in small patient groups making silos of information not only between pathology and radiology
it challenging for providers to gather significant clinical but also across numerous other information resources (e.g.,
experience. Furthermore, while any given rare disease may blood pressure measurements and endoscopy). Further,
only make a small contribution to expenditures, rare diseases diagnostic workflows and communications are often ad hoc
in aggregate place a considerable demand on the health-care and are not well supported with our current EHR centric
system. In the United Kingdom (UK), it is estimated that 1 in technologies. Fortunately, current efforts in the development
17 people has a rare disease, and rare diseases are a current of joint radiology/pathology reports, the adoption of
focus of the UK health‑care system.[31] It is important to diagnostic management teams, and the use of telemedicine in
appreciate that, while the diagnosis of a rare disease is often multidisciplinary settings may point the way toward a more
long, costly, and requires advanced diagnostic technologies, integrated diagnostic process.[32-34] With appropriate financial
as a group these diseases are frequently scientifically incentives and continued innovations, these trends might
informative. coalesce into a broader cross‑specialty field of diagnostic
management systems which would be implemented by
Focusing implementation on rare diseases offers an added
accountable care organizations as a prerequisite for FKS
benefit: The approach initially avoids some scientific
payment models.
uncertainties in defining patient clusters. Thus, it provides time
for our knowledge of disease networks and disease progression FKS will also require improvements in patient privacy (both
to mature. In summary, rare disease patients are a useful “North at the policy and technical levels) like those required for
6 Journal of Pathology Informatics

J Pathol Inform 2020, 1:6 http://www.jpathinformatics.org/content/11/1/6
a national health-care information network. However, the are important in the current diagnostic process. Both specialties
current privacy policy is surprisingly flexible in permitting are well positioned to contribute to the future of health-care
many of the functions that FKS requires. The Health Insurance policies should they choose to do so. First, their role in the
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) gives providers diagnostic process will only grow as new diagnostic modalities
broad authority to exchange patient identified data when are developed and advances in AI/ML unfold. Both specialties
consulting with other providers regarding the care of a specific also have considerable experience in interoperability,
patient. HIPAA also gives payors significant flexibility to use developing and implementing standards, and in constructing
patient data to establish new quality improvement programs and querying complex databases. Finally, they both have
when they may be important for “treatment, payment, and considerable experience in communicating patient findings
operations”.[35] There is already considerable experience in to a wide range of providers and in clinical communications
the use of deidentified data sets to implement queries across generally. Thus, pathology and radiology sit astride the three
federated databases, and the results of these queries might also revolutions discussed in this article’s introduction.
be linked to the patients’ providers. The providers would then
Current policy approaches are limited and will need to be
be free to decide if they wished to consult with one another
replaced with new ones that are aligned with the known
to further the care of the group of patients they are treating.
complexity of human disease. Moving forward, it would
Perhaps, one of the greatest challenges to FKS will be the be useful if a consortium of tertiary medical centers, state
continued development and robust adoption of health-care Medicaid agencies, and provider networks were to propose
interoperability across numerous data types. However, it is both DPM- and FKS-based payment models to PTAC and
the goal of DPM reforms to incent the early adoption of these CMMI for further development.
standards, an incentive the current market lacks.
Acknowledgments
Moving forward, the health-care research enterprise must
This article is based in part on a presentation given by the
support a vigorous research effort. Topics for this research
author at the 2019 Pathology Informatics Summit. The
may include:
presentation was entitled “Diagnostic Errors, HIT and Payment
1. Micropayment models for queries and payment models
Reform: the Perfect Storm” See: https://s3.amazonaws.com/
for consultations (including their potential for fraud and
pathologyinformatics.org/2019/Tuesday/Sorace.mp4. The
abuse)
author thanks Monica de Baca, MD for her review of the
2. The co-development of joint radiology and pathology
manuscript and thoughtful comments. The views expressed
reporting and workflows
in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily
3. Implementation of diagnostic management teams that
represent those of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
align with the IOM report on diagnosis
Services or any other organization.
4. The statistical analysis of long-tailed distributions and
disease networks including patient-clustering algorithms Financial support and sponsorship
5. Clinical decision support for complex rare patients Nil.
6. Federated databases that support clinical research as well
Conflicts of interest
as direct patient care and consultation
There are no conflicts of interest.
7. Telemedicine technologies that support multidisciplinary
consultations.
r
eferences
Finally, careful consideration will need to be given to
1. Pan W, Flint J, Shenhav L, Liu T, Liu M, Hu B, et al. Re-examining the
ensure that mental health receives adequate attention. For
robustness of voice features in predicting depression: Compared with
example, consider DC number 97 in Table 2. This DC which baseline of confounders. PLoS One 2019;14:e0218172.
consists of patients with both schizophrenia and chronic 2. Jacobson NC, Weingarden H, Wilhelm S. Using digital phenotyping to
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a useful test case accurately detect depression severity. J Nerv Ment Dis 2019;207:893-6.
3. HL7 FHIR Foundation Enabling Health Interoperability through FHIR.
for collaboration between psychiatrists and pulmonary
Available from: http://www.fhir.org/. [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
specialists. Since it is widely accepted that schizophrenics 4. Topol EJ. High-performance medicine: The convergence of human and
have an extremely high rate of cigarette addiction, fostering artificial intelligence. Nat Med 2019;25:44‑56.
improved preventative health strategies for this vulnerable 5. Fry E, Schulte F. Death by a Thousand Clicks: Where Electronic
Health Records Went Wrong. Fortune Magazine; 2019. Available from:
population would be a useful exercise both to reduce COPD
https://fortune.com/longform/medical-records/. [Last accessed on
and to develop mental health interventions more broadly.[36] 2019 Dec 14].
6. Wilson K, Khansa L. Migrating to electronic health record systems:
c A comparative study between the United States and the United Kingdom.
onclusIons
Health Policy 2018;122:1232-9.
Improving the diagnostic process is an essential first step to 7. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services: Innovation Models.A vailable
from: https://innovation.cms.gov/initiatives/#views=models. [Last
meaningful improvements to quality, costs, and knowledge
accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
sharing as discussed above. As noted by the IOM study
8. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services: CMMI Model Certifications.
referenced above, the specialties of pathology and radiology Available from: https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-
Journal of Pathology Informatics 7

J Pathol Inform 2020, 1:6 http://www.jpathinformatics.org/content/11/1/6
and‑Systems/Research/ActuarialStudies/CMMI‑Model‑Certifications. 22. Mandal S, Greenblatt AB, An J. Imaging intelligence: AI is transforming
html. [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14]. medical imaging across the imaging spectrum. IEEE Pulse 2018;9:16-24.
9. United States General Accountability Office: CMS Innovation Center: 23. Huttlin EL, Bruckner RJ, Paulo JA, Cannon JR, Ting L, Baltier K, et al.
Model Implementation and Center Performance; 2018. https://www. Architecture of the human interactome defines protein communities and
gao.gov/assets/700/690875.pdf. [Last accessed 2019 Dec 14]. disease networks. Nature 2017;545:505-9.
10. Joynt Maddox KE, Orav EJ, Zheng J, Epstein AM. Evaluation of 24. Rajkomar A, Oren E, Chen K, Dai AM, Hajaj N, Hardt M, et al. Scalable
Medicare’s Bundled Payments Initiative for Medical Conditions. and accurate deep learning with electronic health records. NPJ Digit
N Engl J Med 2018;379:260-9. Med 2018;1:18.
11. MacLean CH, Kerr EA, Qaseem A. Time out – Charting a path for 25. Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute. Available from: https://
improving performance measurement. N Engl J Med 2018;378:1757-61. www.pcori.org/. [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
12. Nyweide DJ, Weeks WB, Gottlieb DJ, Casalino LP, Fisher ES. 26. Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics. Available from:
Relationship of primary care physicians’ patient caseload with https://ohdsi.org/. [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
measurement of quality and cost performance. JAMA 2009;302:2444-50. 27. Project ECHO. Available from: https://echo.unm.edu/. [Last accessed
13. Sender R, Fuchs S, Milo R. Revised Estimates for the Number of on 2019 Dec 14].
Human and Bacteria Cells in the Body. PLoS Biol 2016;14:e1002533.
28. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation U.S.
14. Sorace J, Wong HH, Worrall C, Kelman J, Saneinejad S, MaCurdy T.
Department of Health and Human Services. Physician-Focused Payment
The complexity of disease combinations in the Medicare population.
Model Technical Advisory Committee (PTAC). Available from: https://
Popul Health Manag 2011;14:161-6.
aspe.hhs.gov/ptac-physician-focused-payment-model-technical-adviso
15. Sorace J, Millman M, Bounds M, Collier M, Wong HH, Worrall C,
ry-committee. [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
et al. Temporal variation in patterns of comorbidities in the medicare
29. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Physician-Focused
population. Popul Health Manag 2013;16:120-4.
Payment Models (PFPMs): Secretary’s Response to Proposals. Available
16. Sorace J, Rogers M, Millman M, Rogers D, Price K, Queen S, et al.
from: https://innovation.cms.gov/initiatives/pfpms/. [Last accessed on
A comparison of disease burden between twins and control pairs in
2019 Dec 14].
medicare: Quantification of heredity’s role in human health. Popul
30. Power to the Edge (Management Technique). Available from:
Health Manag 2015;18:383-91.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_to_the_edge_(management_
17. Roberts NJ, Vogelstein JT, Parmigiani G, Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B,
technique). [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
Velculescu VE. The predictive capacity of personal genome sequencing.
31. Genomics Education Program. UK Rare Disease Strategy: The Plan
Sci Transl Med 2012;4:133ra58.
for Implementation. Available from: https://www.genomicseducation.
18. Spector T. Identically Different: Why We Can Change Our Genes. 1st ed.
hee.nhs.uk/blog/uk-rare-disease-strategy-the-plan-for-implementation/.
New York: Harry N. Abrams; 2013.
[Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
19. Rezaee M, LeRoy L, White A, Oppenheim E, Carlson K, Wasserman M.
Understanding the High Prevalence of Low‑Prevalence Chronic Disease 32. Sorace J, Aberle DR, Elimam D, Lawvere S, Tawfik O, Wallace WD.
Combinations: Databases and Methods for Research; 2013. Available Integrating pathology and radiology disciplines: An emerging
from: Https://aspe.hhs.gov/report/understanding-high-prevalence-low- opportunity? BMC Med 2012;10:100.
prevalence-chronic-disease-combinations-databases-and-methods-rese 33. Graber ML, Rusz D, Jones ML, Farm‑Franks D, Jones B, Cyr Gluck J,
arch. [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14]. et al. The new diagnostic team. Diagnosis (Berl) 2017;4:225-38.
20. Miller BT, Ball JR. Committee on diagnostic error in health care; 34. Aghdam MRF, Vodovnik A, Hameed RA. Role of Telemedicine in
Board on health care services; institute of medicine. Balogh EP, editors. Multidisciplinary Team Meetings. J Pathol Inform 2019;10:35.
Improving Diagnosis in Health Care. Washington (DC): The National 35. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Uses and Disclosures
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine; 2015. Available for Treatment, Payment, and Health Care Operations. Available
from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK338596/. [Last from: https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/privacy/guidance/
accesses on 2019 Dec 14]. disclosures-treatment-payment-health-care-operations/index.
21. Berenson R, Singh H. Payment Innovations To Improve Diagnostic html. [Last accessed on 2019 Dec 14].
Accuracy And Reduce Diagnostic Error. Health Aff (Millwood) 36. Quigley H, MacCabe JH. The relationship between nicotine and
2018;37:1828-35. psychosis. Ther Adv Psychopharmacol 2019;9:2045125319859969.
8 Journal of Pathology Informatics