June 16, 2025
Dr. Mehmet Oz Dr. Thomas Keane
CMS Administrator Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services National Coordinator for Health Information
Hubert H. Humphrey Building Technology
200 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 445- U.S. Department of Health and Human
G Services
Washington, DC 20201 330 C St SW, Floor 7
Washington, DC 20201
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Dr. Oz and Dr. Keane:
Thank you for this opportunity to comment on the request for Information from CMS, ONC, and
DHHS regarding the Health Technology Ecosystem.
MaineHealth is an integrated non-profit health care system that provides a continuum of health
care services to the residents of eleven counties in Maine and one in New Hampshire. Each day,
MaineHealth’s 23,000 care team members work to fulfill our vision of “working together so our
communities are the healthiest in America” through nine acute care hospital sites, an integrated
medical group / physician group, a lab, home health care services, and an integrated continuum
of inpatient and community-based behavioral health services. MaineHealth is the largest private
employer in Northern New England.
MaineHealth offers comments on the following sections of the RFI:
1. Digital health apps
2. Data access and integration
3. Reimbursement and Regulatory Reform
Digital Health Apps
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization of the most
useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality measurement reporting,
clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these obstacles be mitigated?
MaineHealth sees a lack of clarity around long-term reimbursement as a significant barrier for
digital health tool adoption, as it stifles innovation. This is particularly true following the
cancellation of funding from the Digital Equity Act, which would have supported expansion of
broadband into Maine’s rural areas. This expansion is critical for helping rural and other
underserved communities access digital care, along with increased access to smartphones,
tabled, and other medically necessary devices.

We are concerned by the misalignment of payment models, with CMS and private payors
reimbursing at different rates, and encourage ONC to build digital health tools into value-based
care models. Similarly, we urge ONC to consider eliminating co-pays for known value-added
services such as e-consults, tele-consults, virtual visits, and remote patient monitoring.
Finally, we encourage ONC to address potential barriers and regulatory penalties related to
inducement risk when providers furnish patients with digital health tools.
Data access and integration
PC-8c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability and
integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research and
generation of actionable evidence?
It is well known that cross-platform data exchange between different electronic medical records
systems remains challenging for both patients and providers; we encourage ONC to continue to
work with medical record vendors to improve interoperability. This would align with encouraging
easier data sharing that would allow patients to coordinate between their care teams, including
forwarding data in an accessible format when necessary. We make a distinction, however,
between better patient access and any requirements that would allow access to business records.
Reimbursement and Regulatory Reform
Use of digital health tools requires clinicians to undertake many steps of the care management
process, including managing data inputs, evaluating data trends, and acting on the data to make
care referrals, prescribe appropriate therapies, and communicate information back to the patient.
That care management, as with other care delivered outside of a patient visit, is not considered
reimbursable clinical work in traditional reimbursement models. We encourage ONC and CMS to
provide reimbursement for this work. We also encourage CMS and ONC to eliminate patient cost-
sharing. Finally we encourage ONC and CMS to create reimbursement models that support key
elements of virtual care, including remote patient monitoring and remote therapeutic
monitoring.
Thank you again for this opportunity to comment.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Mulcahy, DNP, FNP-C
VP, Telehealth & Virtual Care