Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Request for Information: Health Technology Ecosystem [CMS-0042-NC] RIN 0938-AV68 Response Submitted by Synensys, LLC Contact: Christine Lux, Business Development Manager Email: info@synensysglobal.com Phone: 678-369-6317 Company Overview •Who We Are: Synensys is a global leader in healthcare quality, safety, and system improvement, with a proven track record of building resilient U.S. healthcare systems. With 20 years of experience working with over 500 healthcare systems worldwide, Synensys brings unparalleled expertise and a global perspective to advancing healthcare performance and outcomes. The Synensys team brings together seasoned professionals from safety-critical industries, offering deep expertise in solutions adoption, human factors engineering, systems strengthening, strategic planning, research, training, safety auditing, team performance optimization, and the transformation of healthcare core platforms through innovative digital experience strategies and delivery. •Mission: To advance healthcare trustworthiness, safety, resilience, and performance through evidence-based implementation, solutions engineering, education, and system transformation. Submission: B. Patients and Caregivers PC-5a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in the sense of coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary communications)? CMS should require formal system-based hazard analysis be conducted prior to approval of all digital health products (or approval for payment/reimbursement for use of the digital health product). This process should identify potential hazards to healthcare safety and quality and include control measures and feedback loops that vendors will implement to eliminate, or at least mitigate, adverse events, outcomes, and losses. CMS should then assess this analysis and corrective action plan prior to digital health device approval and then proactively monitor implementation of the approved digital health product via established output/outcome data and provider/patient feedback (ease of use, compliance, satisfaction, etc.).
PC-5b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated data on patients? Data quality has not been a priority, especially when data is shared by non-affiliated institutions. Most data initiatives today focus on collecting, transferring, and exchanging data, not the quality of the data being shared. CMS must prioritize data quality as a core component of better health outcomes, better research, and better decision-making. CMS must adopt a common approach for measuring the quality of health data using open- source frameworks such as the Patient Information Quality Improvement (PIQI) framework https://piqiframework.org/ PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the best means of doing so? CMS should consider developing a similar model as the FDA post-market surveillance program by collecting digital health data to determine safety and effectiveness of these products. Costs could be compared between patient cohorts who are using digital health products and those that are not. PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? Notes: There are numerous sources of health data readily available and valuable to both patients and caregivers. Electronic Health Records (EHRs), available through a patient portal, provide valuable information about either a single instance of care or care over a continuum. Pharmacy records are available either through a patient portal or directly from the pharmacy which enables patients to have real time access to their medication list for reconciliation purposes and allergy status, remote and current. Patient – Generated Health Data (PGHD) offers valuable insights into patient physiological and psychological state and can be used for tracking outcomes, health status, the need for immediate intervention, or to document the impact of treatment decisions. PGHD available for patients and caregivers offer real-time data monitoring that can be shared with the healthcare team. Pharmacy and medication information that is up to date and readily available is necessary for patient and caregiver care to assure that the patient is taking the correct medications and dosages. This is equally true for allergies and past adverse reactions which must be updated at each healthcare interaction. It is important to note that this data is only valuable when the provider and or patient has full confidence in the accuracy and safety of the data that is being transferred. It is crucial to perform proactive analysis on the system such as Systems Theoretic Process Analysis or similar in which this data is shared. PC-8a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
Claims and other code-based information—such as diagnosis and procedure codes—as well as handwritten notes and manually completed forms that are scanned into the electronic health record (EHR) are often not easily accessible through the patient portal. Even when available, this information can be difficult to read and interpret. PC-8b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest value, and why? Patient –Generated Health Data (PGHD) is the most valuable source as it allows patients and caregivers to identify trends in disease processes and illness recovery, empowering patients and their caregivers to have a meaningful participation in clinical condition monitoring outside of the clinical setting. Patients with newly diagnosed or chronic conditions can benefit from tracking their health data, monitoring symptoms, and communicating with their healthcare team. Access to health data helps patients make informed decisions about their health and actively participate in their care. Patient portals and EHRs can facilitate communication between patients and providers, leading to a better understanding of health conditions and treatment plans. Event reporting, documentation of adverse reactions from treatment, and harm events that may require follow up or inform care decisions, are critically important for the patient and caregiver as it provides additional information about responses to treatment and need for unanticipated treatment that may appear unrelated to the underlying patient care in a transparent manner. These sources of data build trust and provide valuable information for the patient. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence? Answer: As care is becoming more decentralized in a growing geographically mobile population, more care is being delivered either at home or across multiple care sites; access to useful medical information is challenged. Of great concern is that there is no unified source of truth or data dictionary that would allow healthcare data at any site to be obtained, transmitted and accessed in a way that uniformed data and data integrity can be assured and maintained. The Patient Information Quality Improvement Framework (PIQI) could be a potential solution. It aims to create a standard approach that prioritizes portability and reusability, enabling assessments that can be applied universally, irrespective of the data source. This approach will increase the certainty and usability of healthcare data. This is complicated by different proprietary EHRs that may produce data in a way that is not interoperable, i.e., reference ranges for one lab site may be different from another lab test run at another site, confusing the end user as to the accuracy and reliability of the data. Similar, there is no singular integrated portal for 
patients to access data; therefore, patients must navigate a plethora of sites and portals to access a complete, albeit not well integrated clinical record. Similarly, Patient – Generated Health Data (PGHD) that is generated and transmitted to a care team may not be received in a useful manner, diminishing the efficacy of this critically important patient data set for patient monitoring. With multiple disparate systems comes security of data risks as well as data storage and accessibility for all care providers using different clinical platforms. Lack of Safety Management Systems (SMS) to assure that data is an accurate, reliable source of truth not only impedes patient care but also impedes research, public health reporting, clinical education, and other necessary clinical priorities. Equally a challenge is the lack of a national patient safety database in which all near miss and patient adverse event data is housed for rigorous study using engineering principles that will support healthcare, going far beyond the current limited use of root cause analysis and look at bigger systems issues and enhancing patient safety. C. Providers PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization of the most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these obstacles be mitigated? Perhaps the most significant obstacles that prevent deployment and effective utilization of healthcare applications for physician/office/department workflows are time requirements (the time it takes to identify, collect, record, and report quality measures, appropriate/required clinical documentation, required billing documentation, etc.) and the knowledge/proficiency necessary to complete these tasks. CMS could significantly reduce these burdens through “push” rather than “pull” systems/processes. CMS, working with digital health product vendors and health IT organizations, could develop processes internal to each digital health product and/or could develop software applications external to the digital health product that identifies, aggregates, packages, and then (1) presents the information to the respective physician/office/department for review and action and (2) sends the data to CMS. AI could play a significant role throughout this process to assist in the appropriate and relevant data identification, collection, aggregation, and reporting. 