Far answers to: PC2,3,5,8,10,11,12,13,14; PR2,3,4,5,6,7,8,11; PA1,2,3,4,5;
TD1,2,4,5,6,7,9,13,14,16,17,18; VB3,7,12,13,15 please see attached file.

Today payment incentives strongly incent the consolidated delivery systems to block
interoperability. They and their EHR vendors have a long history of preventing external
interoperability though they support internal interoperability at vast scale. For political reasons
these systems and their EHRs cannot totally refuse to interoperate so they engage in blocking
tactics ranging fram making mandated APIs difficult to access to claiming to support
interoperability with platforms that do not support actual modem APIs. One current effort to
prevent true interoperability while claiming to be interoperable is TEF CGA. The Cures Act defines
information blocking as limiting the access exchange and use of information. TEFCA is
information blocking to prevent a modern digital health economy. TEFCAs brokers limit access,
TEF GAs IHE protocols limit exchange and TEFCAs document payloads limit use.

HHS should work on financial incentives for delivery systems to provide functioning APIs
including enforcement of information blocking and antitrust laws. CMS should reset payment
rates so that services which are digitally available are paid materially more. CMS should require
changes in the CPT system to differentiate services with truly interoperable data from those
which are not. Any service where the provider sees fit to share the detailed data in a proprietary
system preventing true competition but not to the same level of detail and speed with an HIE
(which competitors can access) should be paid materially less. Services with data hiding
prevent shopping are less valuable.

PG10: Is there actual use of TEFCA as claimed? Are there actual examples where an app
queries a QHIN which then using a single RLS query goes to another QHIN which queries that
QHINs EHRs and then provides the record? TEFCAs claimed examples appear to be using
other pre-existing QHIN transport mechanisms or an entirely different network such as
Carequality. TEF CAs claims of moving to FHIR do not stand up to technical scrutiny.

PC11: HIEs are extraordinary public resources allowing data to escape EHRs and to do so with
public private governance. HIEs could serve as immunization registries. These should be
merged into HIEs. There are a many high-performing HIEs including for the states of OK, NE,
IN, MD, AZ and CO. HIEs as Health Data Utilities can serve as a valuable tool for patients
wishing to change providers who can access their HIE records. HIEs could be provided in
states which do not have them for less cost than what CDC is spending on ineffective IT today.
HIEs robust EMPls would provide the CDC with longitudinal patient data. CDC funded data silos
such as immunization registries, public health labs and ECR should be moved to HIEs where all
clinicians could access this data. CDC would then have more rapid information about disease
outbreaks like COVID where HIEs knew in hours which the COC was not able to learn for
months.

PR11: Requiring patient consent for TEFCA transmission of any type including query would
start to offset the fact that TEFCA is innately insecure and privacy breaching. TEFCA is
insecure because instead of using modern zero trust principles, once someone is on TEFCA
they can roam freely secured only by TEFCAs attestations. TEFCA also breaches privacy.
While data transmissions can be encrypted TEFCAs promise that a single query will return all
records of a patient requires the RLS to know where every patient has been seen. This can
only be done by either requiring every provider to report every patient they have seen or
querying all providers to ask if they have seen the patient. Identify of the provider or querying
