 280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health June 16, 2025 Administrator Mehmet Oz, MD Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop: C4-26-05 Baltimore, MD 21244-1850 National Coordinator Thomas Keane, MD Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A, 330 C Street SW Washington, DC 20201. Re: CMS-0042-NC Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem Docket RIN 0938-AV68 Dear Administrator Dr. Oz, National Coordinator Dr. Keane, This comment is by 1upHealth, a scalable serverless cloud data provider leveraging the power of the FHIR data standard to combine claims and clinical data for analytics and APIs to change behavior. 1upHealth applauds this RFI exploring tech enablement for competition and better health. Modern APIs for true interoperability are at the core of digital progress. It is critical to understand that payment incentives strongly incent the consolidated delivery systems to block interoperability. They and their EHR vendors have a long history of preventing external interoperability though they support internal interoperability at vast scale. For political reasons these systems and their EHRs cannot totally refuse to interoperate so they engage in blocking tactics which range from making their mandated APIs difficult to access and with as limited in scope as possible to claiming to support interoperability with platforms which they label with grandiose terms suggesting data is available anywhere or everywhere when they do not support actual modern API use. One current effort to prevent true interoperability while claiming to be interoperable is TEFCA. The Cures Act defines information blocking as limiting the access exchange and use of information. TEFCA is information blocking to prevent a modern digital health economy. TEFCA’s brokers limit access, TEFCA’s IHE protocols limit exchange and TEFCA’s document payloads limit use. HHS should work on strong financial incentives for delivery systems and EHRs to provide functioning APIs including enforcement of information blocking and antitrust laws. CMS should reset payment rates so that services which are digitally available are paid materially more. CMS should require changes in the CPT system to differentiate services documented with truly 
 280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health interoperable data from those which are not. Any service where the provider sees fit to share the detailed data in a proprietary system preventing true competition but not to the same level of detail and speed with an HIE (which competitors can access) should be paid materially less in every federal payment program. Services with data hiding prevent shopping are less valuable to the patient and to taxpayers. PC2: No it is difficult to get access to all of one’s data including notes and images because the data is locked into the EHR, PACs system and or provider portal without a practical way to get the medical record into an app of the patient’s choosing. PC3: If data were truly available one would get apps that serve as guides for rich prevention and allow modern molecular, imaging and artificial intelligence tools of the patient’s choosing unblocked by the insurers. PC5: CMS and ONC should continue their solid work requiring providers and payers to expose patient data with modern APIs. These should be secured by individual identity services controlled by patients using public key cryptography rather than the paternalistic privacy approaches typically offered by vendors who are far more about preventing competing business models rather than providing patients control of their medical care. PC8: The test for adequate patient data is can the patient get enough of their medical record to take their care elsewhere with continuity of that care? USCDI is a valuable starting point but would benefit from patient-centered extensions to the USCDI rather than political extensions of the data set for gender identity or social needs which the patient can provide on their own. With lower costs of memory, images should be added to the USCDI. PC10: It is not clear that there is actual use of TEFCA as claimed. Are there actual examples where a native app queries a QHIN which then using TEFCA and a single RLS query goes to another QHIN which queries that QHINs sources and then provides the record. TEFCAs claimed examples appear to be using other pre-existing transport mechanisms available to the QHIN or an entirely different network such as Carequality. TEFCAs claims of moving to FHIR do not an include an explanation of why FHIR data transmissions which can be done in a handful of lines of code is taking years. One suspects that the difficulty is in grafting modern data and API standards which are designed not to need brokers onto TEFCAs toll-taking broker network. TEFCA decision making is not open even though in large part by tax dollars so it is not clear why TEFCA still does not support modern data transmissions. ASTP / ONC should require transparency with TEFCA and Sequoia. PC11: Health Information Exchanges are extraordinary public resources allowing data to escape EHRs and to do so with public private governance. Historically HIEs have not reached out to individuals but with appropriate individual identification services they could do so. One area that would be powerful for consumers is HIEs could serve as vaccination registries. Current immunization registries sit outside any other clinical resources. These should be merged into HIEs. There are a many high-performing HIEs including for the states of OK, NE, IN, MD, AZ and CO. HIEs serving as Health Data Utilities provide public private control of patient information and 
 280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health can serve as a valuable tool for patients wishing to change providers who can access the core parts of their record via the HIE. HIEs could be provided in states which do not have them for less money than the cost what the CDC is spending on ineffective IT today. HIEs could provide the CDC with powerful longitudinal patient trajectories using robust HIE EMPIs. CDC funded data silos such as immunization registries, public health labs and ECR should be moved to HIEs where all clinicians could access this data to take care of patients and where CDC would have far more rapid information about public health outbreaks like COVID where HIEs had information in hours which the CDC was not able to obtain for months. PC12: The most valuable operational health data use case for patients would be to enable patient choice by true market competition and the ability of patients to move their medical records by themselves. PC13: Enforcement of information blocking would encourage reporting. Having an anonymous way to report would be helpful for both patients and competing vendors both of whom often have ongoing needs to work with information blocking entities. PC14: Digital identity credentials will be very helpful in securing patient data and getting permissions back to the patient. Having the patient control their data would obviate many of the protecting privacy arguments used by incumbents to prevent competition since privacy then would be up to the patient not the vendor. PR2: EHRs are built for documentation with little thought to enterprise automation. Thus automation falls on outside vendors. As much data as possible needs to be made available by extrication from the EHR to allow the vast array of modern software tools and platforms to be mobilized for process automation. If there were more provider competition there would be strong provider demand for automation. This is in stark contrast to the robust automation used by every other US industry PR3: Enabling the Cures Act all data export with the SMART on FHIR EHI Export protocol would maximize ability to use EHR data on behalf of the patient. PR4: Automation would be additionally enhanced by requiring scheduling APIs. Use of these APIs could be enforced by requiring them for any provider listed as accepting new patients by Medicare Advantage plans. PR5: 1upHealth offers a data platform usable by providers and payers and currently supports the Patient Access API, Standardized APIs for Patient and Population Services, Provider Directory API, Provider Access API, Payer-to-Payer API, Prior Authorization API and Bulk FHIR API. These are offered for over 35 million members. PR6: Please see PC10. PR7: CMS and ASTP/ONC should work on strong financial incentives for delivery systems and EHRs to provide functioning APIs including enforcement of information blocking and antitrust laws. 
 280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health CMS should reset payment rates so that services which are digitally available are paid materially more. CMS should require changes in the CPT system to differentiate services documented with truly interoperable data from those which are not. Any service where the provider sees fit to share the detailed data in a proprietary system preventing true competition but not to the same level of detail and speed with an HIE (which competitors can access) should be paid materially less in every federal payment program. Services with data hiding prevent shopping are less valuable to the patient and to taxpayers. PR8: Quality reporting should move from individual measures to Bulk FHIR. That would provide a single API which can be used for modern ML and AI techniques and provide far more statistical confidence on actual quality. PR11: Requiring patient consent for TEFCA transmission of any type including query would start to offset the fact that TEFCA is innately insecure and privacy breaching. TEFCA is insecure because instead of using modern zero trust principles, once someone is on the network they can roam freely secured only by TEFCAs permitted use attestations. Separately TEFCA also breaches privacy. While data transmissions can be encrypted TEFCAs promise that a single query will return all records of a patient requires the RLS to know where every patient has been seen. This can only be done by either requiring every provider to report every patient they have seen or querying every provider to ask if they have seen the patient. Identify of the provider or querying agent is required e.g. Planned Parenthood, STD clinical, behavioral health provider so the nature of a patients care is disseminated throughout the system. Unlike the chart itself this query metadata cannot be encrypted because it is needed to find the record. Requiring explicit PKCE patient consent BEFORE the query and before the report goes to the QHIN would let the patient control the data flows and determine if they want information about their medical care to be globally available. Today absent individual consent or a 1:1 Business Associate Agreement with each party to the data transaction all TEFCA transmissions are HIPAA Breaches since TEFCAs record disclosure and permitted use claims process has never been through the Federal NPRM needed to totally rewrite patient privacy regulations. PA1: TEFCA does not have tools for population level data extraction needed to support payer or public health use cases. PA2: CMS can accelerate the API work in the OO57F rule including signaling that the Access API requirements will be enforced and working with DaVinci to polish the prior authorization APIs. One major step backward in transparency, competition and public accountability is the work of one EHR vendor to bypass all public APIs and force payers to buy their payer platform if they wish to access the provider data needed for Star ratings measures. Payers then have to buy an entire EHR vendor platform rather than being able to use public APIs. This platform is also working to make prior authorization transactions private. One concern is that making payer provider transactions even more private in single EHR vendor black boxes further deprives patients of control. CMS could require that all data used to report Medicare Advantage Star ratings data come from public APIs. Any prior authorization used in MA plans should be required to use publicly available services. CMS should work with the relevant antitrust authorities to evaluate the legality of such tie-in arrangements.
 280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health PA3: CMS should absolutely move all of its outpatient programs to accept modern identity services. PA4: CMS is required to offer a nationwide provider directory under the Cures Act. Having provider URLs would be of great help in facilitating digital healthcare. Please review the 2022 CMS National Provider Directory RFI for further insights. A similar facilitation far more easily doable is for CMS to provide a PAYER directory. Having a payer equivalent of an NPI would greatly facilitate prior authorization requests and processing. This should start with MA plans. PA5: Payers including the VA and DOD should use Bulk FHIR for their quality programs rather than requiring individual measures. This would allow providers a relatively automatic ability to report data and most importantly the same data to each payer. The 0057 Payer Provider Access APIs could be enhanced to be bidirectional and allow payers Oauth2 access to provider data for patients the payer insures. Payer provider interactions should be required to go through publicly available APIs rather than a private EHR vendor platform where the comparative ease of providing patient data needed to improve Star ratings in the absence of modern APIs is used to force payers to purchase the platform. CMS should consult with the DOJ and FTC to evaluate such platform schemes. TD1: CMS should consider how to enforce the 0057F Access APIs to provide a powerful digital information substrate to jumpstart digital apps. Often payers are the ultimate source of truth of care rendered and this information should be reliably available to apps. TD2: CMS and ASTP should encourage further advances in the SMART Bulk FHIR and SMART EHI for Export APIs and require SLA so that these APIs are not intentionally rate limited as they are today ( https://doi.org/10.1093/jamia/ocae040). TD4: Please see PA2 and PA5. TD5: A nationwide provider directory is required of CMS under the Cures Act. CMS is in the best position to get quality data here given its role in provider payments. CMS would provide this at by far the lowest cost when compared to a private directory since most of the toll costs of private directories will ultimately be borne by the taxpayers through healthcare payments. We already have a number of highly distorting toll-taking operations baked into the payment system (CPT4 codes, JCAHO, quality measure licenses). CMS could serve as DNS server if URLs are needed. TD6: It is not clear that TEFCA itself is providing any of its promised services at present (query=>QHIN=>RLS=>QHIN=>EHR=>data). Many of the QHINs have various proprietary platforms and it appears that most TEFCA claimed services are actually using preexisting non- QHIN functionality e.g. with the Carequality network. Carequality itself started as an earlier vendor effort to prevent interoperability. Realistically the parties which have a right to clinical data are patients, providers and payers. Almost always each of these three parties knows who the other two parties are. With effective public URLs and CMS acting as a DNS server there would rarely be a legitimate need for a broad network query e.g. if the patient is incapacitated. TEFCA does 
 280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health appeal to third parties who wish to monetize patient data and are willing to use TEFCAs minimal security and privacy controls to get at that data by claiming a TPO reason to access patient data. TEFCAs claim that they will provide audit logs for patients to see who is accessing their data is an extraordinarily weak protection and after the fact. Legitimate reasons to get patient data from such as in an emergency can be served by current clinical networks specifically the HIEs and Commonwell. Social Security could access modern EHR APIs to get the data they need. CDC should use HIE Health Data Utilities which have been shown to work today instead of relying on TEFCA claims that at some point in the future it will provide modern APIs. TD7: USCDI provides structured data out of the EHR so helps where structured deterministic data is needed. There is a constant tension between the quality of structured data and the volume of that data. The USCDI process needs to be public and not political. USCDI data should be data that can be assumed to be reasonably accurate. There may be a role for incentivizing more structured data export in the FHIR format for data fields not in FHIR. Requiring export of all data as FHIR resources offers an intriguing option to get data out of EHRs and into the digital world. Hybrid FHIR APIS could be requirement for CMS payments for incenting true interoperability via publicly available APIs and HIEs rather than being sequestered in private data stores used for anticompetitive purposes. For data not fitting into USCDI or more broadly into current FHIR resources, the SMART EHI for Export protocol should be used for data transmission. TD9: Certification should focus on the existence and real-world performance of APIs. Testing bodies can measure performance of APIs. To prevent current anticompetitive behavior patterns all CMS payments should require that EHRs export data to HIEs with public private governance and APIs in the same detail and with the same speed as they store data in vendor proprietary databases. MA plans should not be allowed to use data from proprietary EHR platforms where the data is hidden from scrutiny for any Star ratings measures. TD13: Fully functioning APIs allowing patients to have true control over their data are essential to promoting competition in the US healthcare system and doing an end run around the bricks and mortar structures and IT of the current consolidated delivery systems. It is hard to imagine that making America great again can happen if the 30 year pattern of zero productivity growth in healthcare is allowed to continue. Making America healthy again will require pervasive behavior changes by Americans. Digital enablement on cell phones powered by a combination of lifestyle data from phone sensors and clinical data from EHR APIs will be core to these behavior changes. TD14: 1upHealth has roughly 10K provider endpoints using FHIR APIs. They are not searchable by NPI. The network we constantly connect with is the Internet. We do so with RESTful APIs. It is interesting that proponents of TEFCA seem unaware that point-to-point network services and RESTful APIs power almost all modern consumer communications. Trying to reinvent the Internet with warmed over 1990’s protocols should not be part of any CMS or ASTP/ONC strategy. TD16: Please see TD14. TD17: CMS and ASTP/ONC should work with the HIE to ensure networks which serve patient interests. The challenging economics of HIEs are purely because CMS provides far more 
 280 Summer St, Floor 7, Boston MA 02210 | 508-245-8558 | 1up.health incentives to delivery systems to NOT share data. Change the payment mechanism and HIEs thrive. Private EHR vendor payer platforms and their customers should not receive federal incentives such as Star ratings bonus payments for data coming through these private platforms. TD18: Almost every EHR vendor API has some element of information blocking. These include cumbersome onboarding processes for apps, proprietary logins, stale access tokens, throttled performance, and incomplete data. This is known to every app vendor who has ever tried to get data from these systems. Testing on each of these parameters should be part of the certification and payment processes.P VB3: Fully functioning Bulk FHIR APIs with group by and search capabilities as critical for true value-based care. VB7: Please see VB3. VB12: Please see VB3. VB13: Please see VB3. VB15: A nationwide public provider directory would facilitate almost every digital transaction. The APIs should be based on FHIR. The directory should include references to related services such as state licenses, board certifications, and secure messaging possibly via Direct Trust. It would be valuable to understand for MA plans which providers are accepting new patients. A large part of the challenge for any provider directory is maintaining complex relationships which shift frequently. CMS has the advantage of trying provider directory information to payments which can serve as an incentive for accuracy. Directories need to be searchable by individual provider identification, affiliated practices, taxpayer IDs as a matter of routine for digital apps. There is the additional complexity that with the various mergers and renamings of provider organizations search needs to support DBA doing business as identifications. One could imagine nested tree structures or graphs providing the computational heft here. CMSs MACs already has a significant amount of information between NPPES, UPIN numbers and its Medicare Administrative Contractor provider databases as well as state licensing databases. Sincerely, Donald W. Rucker, MD Chief Strategy Officer, 1upHealth 