The Cycle of Engagment Well Visit Planner
Approach to Care – Your Families, Your Partners
Prioritizing Possibilities for Child and Family Well-being Using Family-Centered Data and Tools
The Cycle of Engagment Well Visit Planner Approach to Care (COE WVP) builds the capacity of families, communities, and pediatric primary care
teams to partner in the joyful work of promoting the well-being of all children. Currently available for children from the first week of life through age
six, the COE WVP’s online, guideline-based and family-driven Well Visit Planner® (WVP) and post visit Promoting Healthy Development Survey (PHDS)
quality assessment give voice to families and help child and family care teams:
1. Integrate and streamline family-reported screening and priority setting
2. Prepare for and optimize time during visits to focus on the family’s agenda
3. Focus on building strengths and coordinating resources and supports
4. Continuously improve in partnership with families and communities
5. Track population-level needs, priorities, and quality of care
Creating an Integrated Cycle of Family Engagement Before, During, and After Well Child Care Encounters
ENGAGE PARTNER IMPROVE
Your Child, Your Well Visit
The Online Promoting
Personalize Care Using the Family
Healthy Development Survey
Driven Well Visit Planner (WVP)
What is it? Measure & Improve Using the Promoting
• Brief: A 10-minute web-based tool where Healthy Development Survey (PHDS)
families share strengths; complete developmental Optimize Time Spent During Encounters
What is it?
& psychosocial screeners; pick priorities for • Focus: Use the at-a-glance Well Visit Planner
support/education; note concerns; & learn. Well Visit Guide and your Clinical Summary to • Meaningful: A family-completed survey yields 8
Mobile optimized. prepare for and make the best use of time meaningful quality indicators aligned with Bright
Futures guidelines.
• Transparent & Secure: Providers receive Clinical during encounters.
Summaries with results and resources for families. • Your Well-being: Increase your joy in work • Flexible: Use on an ongoing or periodic basis
based on your needs.
• Supported: Family-owned accounts store family by using time freed up to deepen your
Well Visit Guides & support use for multiple children. connection with your patients and rest • Confidential: Generate your own
Customized provider accounts offer access to Well knowing you met their priorities, celebrated confidential, aggregate quality report after at least
Visit Guides, Clinical Summaries and resources to strengths, addressed risks, and linked families 25 completions.
support implementation. to needed supports. • Shared: Families receive a personalized report
with resources to partner in improving care.
Studies to date have demonstrated acceptability, feasibility, improvements in screening and quality, and reductions in urgent care.
Over
What users have to say Providers: “The Well Visit Planner enriches and reinforces what we do as providers...
92% about the Well Visit We didn’t have to ask as many questions... If you want to provide
Planner: comprehensive, guideline-based care that is personalized to each child
and family, you have to use the Well Visit Planner!”
Families: “I liked it! Using the Well Visit Planner was fast, helped me plan my child’s
visit and identify questions. During the well visit the providers were prepared
of providers and families
to focus on my child and family.”
recommend the Well Visit Planner.
Learn More! Try It Out! Get Help!
• Request a demo. Register to get a free, customized, and secure Cycle of Engagement Please email us at
(COE) account and dashboard. From here you can: info@cycleofengagement.org for
• Learn more about the Well Visit
more information or questions. We
Planner content and benefits. 1. Customize the Well Visit Planner to use with the children
aim to partner to continuously
• View a short video. and families you serve and use your WVP Use Portal to access improve and look forward to
Well Visit Guides, Clinical Summaries and resources.
hearing from you!
2. Customize the Online Promoting Healthy Development
Survey and use your PHDS Use Portal to get aggregate
reports on quality and resources to improve care.

Visit www.cycleofengagement.org to EASY...TAILORED...FLEXIBLE...SUPPORTED
learn more and request a COE WVP
account and use portal.
Frequently Asked Questions: The CAHMI provides a suite of implementation
Providers can sign-up on their own or as a resources. Below are answers to common “getting started” questions.
practice. Anyone on your team can manage
1. Do I have to pay? Providers can currently get a COE account and use the WVP and PHDS for
your account if you give them permission.
free as early adopters, who will share their experience using the tools. We aim to always ensure
our tools and resources are accessible; any future pricing associated will be reasonable.
2. I’m interested, but what if I don’t feel ready to start because I’m not sure I can do this
with all of the families I work with? You can start small! Choose who to engage and when. We
Step 1:
provide implementation resources to help you start and ease the scaling of use.
Sign up to get a free, secure COE account
and dashboard and customize your Well 3. What ages are covered by the WVP? Currently, the WVP is available to use for the first 15
Visit Planner and Promoting Healthy recommended well-child visits, starting from a child's first week of life to age six. The WVP is
Development Survey (one or both). Get tailored to be specific for each age.
your unique URL/weblinks and brand your 4. Are family tools optimized for use on mobile devices? Yes. The WVP and PHDS can be used
websites. Get resources for implementation on a smartphone or similar device.
in your practice and team.
5. How can I use these tools if the families I work with have limited or no internet access?
Families can complete on devices in your office or during home visits, and you can also verbally
administer the WVP in person or over the phone or video platforms.
Step 2: 6. How do I engage families to use the WVP or PHDS? Families can be invited to complete the
Use your secure COE Dashboard to add or WVP and PHDS through the same mode of communication that you or your team currently use
change account administrators, additional with your families (in person, by phone, and through email, patient portal, or text message).
assessments and/or resources to share with CAHMI provides guidance and customizable family flyers, verbal/email scripts, office posters
your families (in English or Spanish). and other resource to engage families. QR codes are provided for easy scanning by families.
7. What languages are available? Currently the WVP is in English and Spanish. Invitation scripts,
postcards, and posters are also available in Spanish.
8. Do I need my own account for families to use the WVP and PHDS? No. If you do not want
Step 3: customized account features, you can ask families to use these tools today at
Send your customized WVP and/or PHDS www.wellvisitplanner.org and www.onlinephds.org.
URL/weblinks to your families and track use. 3 9. How do I access Well Visit Planner Well Visit Guides and Clinical Summaries? Well Visit
Use options and resources (email/verbal Guides and Clinical Summaries are automatically uploaded to your secure WVP data portal.
scripts, postcards) to invite families or Families are encouraged to upload their Well Visit Guide to their patient portal, bring it in at the
create your own. time of visits, and/or email it to you at a secure email you provide.
10. Is the data collected secure? Yes. Information collected from families is managed using the
highest data security standards and in full compliance with HIPAA standards at all times. See
our Summary of Data Collection and Storage Procedures and Policies, Use Agreement and
Step 4: Privacy Notice for more information. More information is available upon request.
Get Well Visit Guides and at-a-glance 11. Can I get data directly integrated into my electronic records? Yes. The Well Visit Planner
Clinical Summaries using your Well Visit was developed and tested for full integration into electronic records. Right now, families can
4
Planner Use Portal to prepare for upload their Well Visit Guides to the EMR via a patient portal if you have one. You can scan
personalized, connected encounter visits. Clinical Summaries into your EMR to support billing and visit notes. Direct integration into your
Generate PHDS quality reports using your EMR is possible if your EMR is able to receive WVP data. Collaboration with your EMR vendor
PHDS Use Portal after 25 family and additional data sharing agreements are required.
completions.
12. Have the WVP and PHDS been validated? Yes. The PHDS was endorsed by the National
Quality Forum in 2008 and continues to demonstrate validity. The WVP has been validated
through several studies, including a randomized controlled trial. We seek research partners if
you are interested.
Step 5:
13. Will families use the Well Visit Planner? Yes. Studies show that once families know you want
Continuously innovate to make the COE
them to use the WVP, they take the time. This is new for families and providers, but it is worth it
WVP Approach to Care work best for you.
to engage families and partner closely to promote the health of the whole child and family–all
Use population based WVP and PHDS 5
while meeting requirements for screening and quality of care.
data to track needs and priorities, identify
areas for improvement, and advocate/ 14. Are there tools for chronic care and other types of care?Yes. The CAHMI has developed the
collaborate for positive change in your CARE-PATH for Kids shared care planning tools to ensure comprehensive care plans are based
health system and/or community. on the foundation of child and family needs, priorities, goals and social and family context.
See www.carepathforkids.org.
Our Journey and Commitment Partner and Support:
Creating and evaluating the value of the Cycle of Engagement has been a labor of love for the CAHMI CAHMI aims to continue to innovate and partner to help all
since 2008. We are driven by our dedication to partner with you to meet the great need and children thrive! We need your partnership and support.
possibilities to promote the early and lifelong health of children, families, and communities. Since 1997 Current funding for the Well Visit Planner comes from grants
the Child and Adolescent Health Measurement Initiative (CAHMI) has partnered with families, to the CAHMI and from the Center for the Advancement of
providers, and experts at the national, state, health plan, practice, and provider levels to design, Innovative Health Practices. If you wish to partner or support
develop, and test the Well Visit Planner as part of the CAHMI’s broader Cycle of Engagement model this work, please contact Christina Bethell, PhD, MBA, MPH at
and tools. With initial support from the Health Resources and Services Administration, CAHMI has cbethell@cahmi.org.
worked in close collaboration with Family Voices and leaders of the American Academy of Pediatrics’
Bright Futures Guidelines for Health Supervision of Infants, Children and Adolescents to translate
guidelines into family-friendly, actionable tools to customize and improve the quality of well child care Copyright © 2023 Child and Adolescent Health Measurement Initiative,
Center for the Advancement of Innovative Health Practices. All rights
services based on family reported assessments and priorities. reserved.