 The Engagement In Action (EnAct!) Framework -- One Big Doable Thing! Toward a Statewide Integrated Early Childhood Health System that Optimizes the Power of Family Engaged Prevention and Early Intervention Child and Family Flourishing: The Engagement In Action Opportunity The EnAct! framework was designed to serve as a national model focused on translating the science of healthy development by scaling strategies, i nnovations, and policies to promote child flourishing, school readiness and family resilience, foster positive childhood experiences (PCEs) and prevent and mitigate the impacts of adverse childhood experiences (ACEs). The EnAct! framework achieves its whole child health purpose using a through any door family engaged approach powered by interoperable whole child and family assessment and data sharing tools and health promotion interven tions that drive collaboration across health care, early childhood systems and community partners as they work to close persistent gaps in the utilization and quality of preventive and developmental services for children aged 0 -5. In full alignment with national Bright Futures Guidelines, healthcare and state early childhood systems’ goals, performance standards, payment innovations, data requirements and evidence -based strategies, the EnAct! approach works to incentivize and overcome barriers to re al engagement and coordinated, cross -system action so all children and families thrive! Over half of young children in the United States experience complex and interrelated social, relational and/or medical health risks (45.3% - 63.2% across states).Only 40% meet criteria for being ready for school, 65% fail to receive even basic early developmental screens and large gaps exist in the utilization of essential well -child care services. Now is the time for the bold and feasible actions set forth in the EnAct! framework to create an integrated early childhood health system . Despite widespread awareness about the urgency and possibilities to improve the healthy development of young children and existing system priorities and assets for doing s o, poor outcomes and performance gap realities call for creating new conditions, incentives and suppor ts for historically siloed programs and sectors across health, early childhood, family support and others to work together seamlessly and in authentic partnerships with families and communities. The EnAct! framework provides an imminently actionable roadma p (Fig. 2) with relevance across all early childhood system partners to spark swift and effective action so all children and families receive high-quality comprehensive and personalized whole child and family services. The EnAct! implementation roadmap sets forth key actions and implementation outcomes relevant across states, including the Mississippi state illustration , summary of data to spark commitment and priority setting, a policy playbook with priority policy levers, a summary of methods to jump start collaboration, a partner and performance measure analysis and Possibility Prototypes illustrating the relevance and through every door roles (Fig 3) early childhood health system partners can play to support success through shared accountability. Figure 1: Engagement In Action (EnAct!) Framework Purpose, Goals, Approach 
Figure 2: The Engagement In Action Implementation Roadmap (see full report for data, methods, partners landscape, policy levers and possibility prototypes ) From Possibilities to Progress Creating a healthy and productive society depends on fostering achievable leaps in the healthy development and flourishing of children and families. By leveraging strengths and existing federal, state and community programs and infrastructure, states are w ell poised to promo te whole child health through transformational partnerships across systems and in full partnership with families and communities. The decades of research, advocacy and systems change work led by a countless army of individuals and o rganizations enable us to meet this moment of opportunity for generations to come if we prioritize the possibilities before us. The EnAct! framework is offered to accelerate progress by bolstering and building the capacity of families, communities, childre n’s health care and all early childhood systems to partner in the joyful work to measurably improve the well -being of all children and families, as well as that of the professionals that serve them. Learn more here. Figure 3: Illustration of the EnAct! Through Any Door Approach Powered by Interoperable Family Engaged Principles and Assessment and Data Sharing Tools Citation: Child and Adolescent Health Measurement Initiative, Two Page Summary of the Engagement In Action Framework , April, 2023 Acknowledgement: A Health Resources & Services Administration, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Cooperative Agreement (#UK2MC31456) to the University of Mississippi Medical Center’ funded the Mississippi Thrive! Child Health and Development Project through which the EnAct! framework was created with the CAHMI also with support from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. 