Well Visit Planner® and Promoting
Healthy Development Survey:
Summary of content, reports, implementation
and alignment with screening and quality of
care standards
The CAHMI’s Cycle of Engagement Well Visit Planner Approach to Care (COE
WVP), using the Well Visit Planner (WVP) and Promoting Healthy Development
PERSONALIZE CONNECT THRIVE
nSu ar tv ioe ny
a
( lP sH tD anS)
d
f aa rm dsil y
o
fc o cam rep .l e At ce td
io
t no ao bls le, i rn ec plu od rte ss
f
v oa rl i fd
a
mco iln iete
s
n at
n
a dl i cg hn ie ldd hw ei ath
lt h
W Pe lall n V ni esi rt Pe C Er o ns n co n on e ua c nl ti tz e ee d rd , Pro Dm eo v SO t e uin ln rol vgi pn
e
H me ye ea nl tthy
professionals are generated to help you meet recommended standards of
care based on Bright Futures Guidelines and to improve aspects of care
WVP PCE PHDS
aligned with performance measures used to evaluate quality of care. The COE
WVP approach to care and tools foster learning, engagement, and trust.
ENGAGE PARTNER IMPROVE
Family Tools and Reports Provider and Care Team Dashboards and Reports
The Well Visit Planner® is a brief family-completed, pre-visit planning tool
anchored to Bright Futures guidelines for all 15 well visits recommended from
Topics Assessed Using the Well Visit Planner (WVP)
a child’s first week to sixth year of life. Every completed WVP produces a
family Well Visit Guide and a provider Clinical Summary.
CORE CONTENT 1. Child and parent/caregiver strengths (what is going well!) 9. Family psychosocial issues (e.g. meeting baseic needs, alcohol and substance
use, smoking, emotional support, parent/caregiver coping, experiences of racial
2. Open-ended questions about family/parent specific goals and concerns
• Tailored for 15 recommended for the well visit discrimination, etc.)
v gi us ii dts
e
b lina ese
s
d
(fi
o rn
st
B wri eg eh kt F tou t 6u tr he s 3.
s
D cre ev ee nlo ip nm
g
e un sit na gl s tu hr ev Se uil rl va en yc oe
f
a Wn ed
l
ls -Bta en ind ga ord
f
i Yz oe ud
n
d ge Cv he il ldo rp em
n
e (Sn Wta Yl
C)
1 To0. o I ln -St him ora t t (e W p Aa Sr Tt -n Se hr o v rtio )lence using the Women Abuse Screening
year of life) 4.Autism spectrum disorder screening using the Modified Checklist for 1 fa1 m. A ilyn -t ci ec nip tea rt eo dr y e dgu ucid aa tin oc ne b a yn td op p ica ar le Fn at mal i le yd Ru ec sa ot ui ro cn e s Se hle ec et ti so n and provision of
• English and Spanish Autism in Toddlers, Revised (M-CHAT-R™) for 18-and 24-month visits (24-31 per age; can pick up to five; average selected=3)
• Mobile optimized 5.Emotional/behavioral screening using the Baby Pediatric Symptom 12. Other general health information recommended in guidelines
• Allows for a personalized, C onh e cc hk il li ds 't s ( aB gP eS )C) or Preschool Pediatric Symptom Checklist (PPSC) (based (age-specific; nutrition, medications, vitamins/herbs, breastfeeding, oral health)
connected encounter between 13. Special health care needs, using the Children with Special Health Care Needs
family and provider with 6. Caregiver concerns about speaking, vision, hearing screener (CSHCN screener)
shared agenda 7. Open-ended question on any additional concerns about child’s 14. Other family health history and updates (heart, stroke, blood pressure, new
development or health. problems, recent changes or stressors)
• Not all content applies for all
ages 8. o C ra Er de ig niv be ur r/ g d he Pp or se ts ns ai to an l Du esi pn rg e sth sie o P na St cie an let (H Ee Pa Dlt Sh ) Q (bu ae ss et dio on nn a ci hre il- d2 ’s ( P aH geQ )-2) 15. Other context and environmental assessments (e.g. living situation, lead)
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS AND
TOPICS THAT CAN BE INCLUDED • Short Child Flourishing Index (CFI) •Other social determinants topics. Safe Environment for Every Kid (SEEK)
BEYOND THE CORE CONTENT • Short Family Resilience Index (FRI) •Interconception Care (ICC)
• Short Parent-Child Emotional Connection Items •Interest in telemedicine and concerns/barriers to telemedicine
• Can be tailored by age visit • Short Protective Family Routines and Habits (PFRH) •Impact of COVID-19 on child and family's daily life
• English and Spanish • Pediatric ACEs and Related Life-events Screener (PEARLS)
Other assessments can be added by you during customization of your WVP.
Aspects of Quality Assessed Using the The Online PHDS is a valid family-reported, post-visit assessment of
Promoting Healthy Development Survey quality of care for families of children 3 months to 6 years.
QUALITY OF CARE • Anticipatory guidance and parental education needs are met • Family concerns about child development are addressed
MEASURES • Recommended developmental surveillance and • Surveillance about problems/issues in the community occurs
standardized developmental screening occurs and resources provided
• Follow up occurs for children at risk for developmental • Core medical home criteria are met (e.g., personal doctor or
problems (using PEDS) nurse; access to and coordination of care, family centered care)
• Basic psychosocial screening occurs Quality measures are stratified by child/family demographics,
• Surveillance of caregiver mental health conducted caregiver mental health, child developmental status and having
a special health care need (CSHCN Screener).
OPTIONAL CONTENT • Caregiver interest in telemedicine and concerns/barriers • Feedback on the use of the Well Visit Planner (if using this tool)
to telemedicine
Additional assessments will be added as we discern their
• Impact of COVID-19 on child’s well visits and daily life need by COE WVP users.

Implementation
Support EXPLORE PLAN IMPLEMENT SUSTAIN
Resources to support COE WVP
implementation are provided Learn, Team up, Launch, Evaluate,
and anchored to best-practice envision, train up, learn, adapt, integrate,
frameworks and strategies. and and and and
customize test up! improve celebrate
Resources for the Personalized,
Connected Encounter (PCE)
support a strengths-based and
relationship-centered approach
to care.
Alignment with Professional Standards and Requirements Section 2713 of the Public Health Service Act
requires all health plans to provide preventive
The CAHMI’s COE WVP model and tools are carefully aligned to help you
care aligned with Bright Futures Guidelines.
meet your goals, standards, and performance requirements.
Beginning in 2024, State Medicaid agency
reporting of the Child Core Set will become
Meet Standards of Care: The WVP and PHDS align with mandatory. The Well Visit Planner and
national Bright Futures Guidelines implementation standards Promoting Healthy Development Survey can
help you meet these standards.
set forth by the American Academy of Pediatrics and other
standards set forth for Medicaid, Title V, home visiting
(MIECHV), early care/Head Start, and Child Welfare.
Complete and Bill for Required Screenings Using Valid
Screening Tools: All screening tools and items included in
the WVP draw on validated measurement and reporting
methods tested with families and providers. The WVP is
aligned with Bright Futures criteria for standardized
development surveillance, developmental screening,
maternal depression screening, and other screening
recommendations.
Improve Quality of Care: The WVP and PHDS are designed
to foster improvements in quality as measured by the
National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) Healthcare
Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) measures
and the Medicaid Core Measurement Set. The WVP and PHDS
“If you want to effectively
align with 7 of the 19 HEDIS measures for children,
adolescents, and maternal health, 2 of the 4 HEDIS measures engage families, efficiently
related to preventive care for children, and 5 out of 8 provide comprehensive care,
Medicaid Core Set "Primary Care Access and Preventive Care" and meet standards you need
measures (62%).
the Well Visit Planner.”
Grow and Earn Continuing Education/Recertification -Pediatric Provider
Credits: Both the PHDS and WVP were designed to support
your continuing education and the training of new child
health professionals. They also align with the American
Board of Pediatrics’ Continuing Education and Maintenance
of Certification requirements to engage patients in quality
improvement activities.
To learn more about the Cycle of Engagement Well Visit Planner Approach to
Care, and its related Well Visit Planner and Online Promoting Healthy Develop-
ment Survey, please visit www.cycleofengagement.org or write to
info@cycleofengagement.org.
Copyright © Child and Adolescent Health Measurement
Initiative, Center for the Advancement of Innovative Health
Practices (2001-present), OHSU (2013), JHU (2021).