Christopher Colin Greene (US-Citizen) Greater Atlanta Area , GA Cell phone 3854274635 • Chrisgerry19@gmail.com Sr. Interoperability, EMR/EHR, Applications, Healthcare Business Systems Consultant Ambitious and strategically-focused healthcare professional leader of change offering 17+ years of expertiseadvising and steering numerous fortune 500 healthcare companies interoperability system initiatives andenterprise applications development simultaneously- valued at $646 Million (2022) per project – in privatevendor, Corporate and Government Sectors. Skill-Set includes HL7x12 Interface FHIR l7 standards and ICD-10/11 remediation training. Provided hospital organizational leaders with agile ARRA implementationprotocols to meet Government Compliance's. •McKesson-Provider Tech •ACS Government •Xerox Healthcare -PHS •Northeast GA Hospital •Eisenhower Hospital •Washington Medical Center •Duke University Health •Wake Forrest University •3M Healthcare •PROMEDICA Home HealthCare •Heathland •Tenet Vanguard Baptist Health •United Health Group •WellCare Health Plans •Virtua Health Systems •Anthelio Health•Community Health Systems- CHS •Gwinnett Hospital, GA •SEQUELMED •Excellacare -International •Client Profiles- Case Management •Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Georgia •California Enrollment Brokers •Medicare Medicaid Credentials Christopher Colin Greene, D.Sc.-Expert at Guiding Difficult and Sensitive Healthcare ARRA “Meaningful. Use Projects with Complex Risks and Stakeholder Implications. Expert Global EMR Systems, multi-versed andanalytical thinker! Demonstrates the abilities, knowledge and skill-sets to fix and solve complex healthcaretransitions as it relates to interoperability and connectivity to Block Chain and the Global HealthcareMetaverse. Progressive Ambulatory/Acute Care, Leader of Change Management Consultantin- that’s developed, built anddeployed Healthcare Clinical and Revenue Cycle Systems and Medical Devices. Just successfully completedthe 9 month Phase #1 ( Three New York Hospital Systems ( Epic EMR version 2013) upgrade to Epic EMRversion 2021 and Implementation of (Epic Community Connect- Hyperspace EMR) Full Suite. Phase #2Healthcare Data Archiving migration and integration of 23 Legacy Applications Data Archiving EMRSystems Medical Devices and Lab Systems. . A R E A S O F E X P E R T I S E Meditech -Clinicals Medsphere- Wellsoft EDIS Sunquest -Copath Wellsky- Medlinks IRF(Rehab Clin Docs. RAS DB-Technology Sunquest -LIS
Reliable- Visual - Billing Docs. Siemens- Syngo- Dynamics Clinical Documentation Cerner Eagle PA- Revenue Cycle GE -Centricity & Scheduling Soft-lab- Lab Application Cerner Clinicals 3M Platform 7.5- Chart Mgm Module Meditech- Revenue Cycle & A/R Cerner - Pharmacy Wesley -Medlinks IRF (Rehab Clin Docs (ARCHIVE) E- Clinical Works- AEMR Net-health- Wound Expert EClinicalWorks- Scanned Doc’s Sunquest- Blood-bank EClinicalWorks- PM Wellsky- Mediserve Siemens -Syngo- Workflow (RIS) - Clinical Documentation Epic experience & understanding: Epic Community Connect 2019, Epic 2010-OpTime User Configuration, EpicCare Ambulatory EMR, Epic 2010 AMB 100, Fundamentals CSR, EpicCare Ambulatory Cert. Success Resource, Epic 2010 Physician Build Course AMB150 Physician Build Basic, Epic 2010-AMB 400, Epic Foundation CHR2010- Hyperspace Configuration Training Companion) Epic 2010, Epic OpTime OR Management Epic 1010 OR301-User Configuration Training Companion, Epic ADT 2010-100 ADT/Prelude Customer Fundamentals, Epic ADT 101-2010, Prelude Hospital Registration Revenue Cycle Readiness, Epic ADT Prelude Hospital Registration Administration, Epic 2010-OpTime Fundamentals OR Management 100, Epic 2010-OpTime Administration OR Management OR 201& 202. S I G N I F I C A N T C O N T R I B U T I O N S •OBHS) ONE BROOKLYN HEALTH-SYSTEM- was awarded $664 million in capital funding from NYS Department of Health’s Health Care Facilities Transformation Program: Kings County Project. The awardrepresents a significant part of the Governor’s groundbreaking $1.4 Billion “Vital Brooklyn” initiative that willaddress chronic social economic disparities-and transform Central Brooklyn. The funding provided OBHS)with approximately $120 Million to develop a 32-site Ambulatory Care Network, $384 Million for Critical Clinical and Facility Infrastructure improvements & $170 Million to create an support a Enterprise Wide Health Information Technology Platform • Provided ACS- Xerox $50 Million integrations of CMMI level 2 compliance standards and MMIS subsystems standards for Government RFP State Insurance Database Structure build maintenance. Provided Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP program policy, requirements, including complete end-to-end lifecycle (data flow) of eligibility, enrollment, claims, payment, and post-payments. • Created the Rational ReqPro Enterprise Martix Insurance Product Data base storage structures for Global Management, Member Management, Provider Management, Operations Management, Program Management and Securities Management for Blue Cross Blue Shields of GA insurance stakeholders. • Provided hospital system Integrated solutions inclusive of Cerner CCL, Power Chart eSignature (WQM) Epic Orders, Clindoc, Ambulatory, Rev Cycle and Care Link mobile integration Haiku, Canto & Rover, Sun Rise 5.5, Allscripts Pro, Meditech, McKesson Horizon MPF v17 Onecontent Suite and Paragon patient care. • Provided HIPAA and other security rules training for Large-Scale Insurance Rational (RUP) Database’s builds deliverable s for the United States Medicare and Medicaid clients: Blue Cross Blue Shield of Georgia, California Enrollment Brokers, Alaska Medicaid, Colorado Medicaid, Montana Medicaid, Alabama Medicaid and Physician Benefits Management.
Christopher Colin Greene Page 2 • Cell phone 3854274635 • Chrisgerry19@gmail.com E N G A G E M E N T H I G H L I G H T S ONE BROOKLYN HEALTH ECOSYSTEM, Brooklyn,NY 09/21-09/22 Data Archiving Analysis, ( BrookDale Univ. Hospital) ( Interfaith Medical Center) KingsBrook Jewish Medical Center) 3 party Data Archiving Vendor Triyam Epic EMR/EHR network, Community Connect 3 hospital Implementation. Provided support forKingsBrook and Interfaith Hospitals with the New Epic Community Connect Hyperspace EMR Implementation2022. Supported the Citrix Links-NetScaler Gateway, Epic Applications and SharePoint sites. Environments:Epic ACE1-Hyperspace, Epic ACE2-Hyperspace, Epic ACE3-Hyperspace, Epic ACE4-Hyperspace, EpicLKB-2019 MAY-Hyperspace, MST-Hyperspace, MST2-Hyperspace, Non Prod Reflections, PLY-Hyperspace,PRD-Downtime Access, PRD-Hyperspace, Prod-Reflections, Project Unity Team Site, REF-Hyperspace,REL-Hyperspace, RL6 Citrix PRD, SHD- Reflections, Epic SUP-Hyperspace, sup-Reflections, EpicTST-Hyperspace, TST Executive Dashboard, VAL-Hyperspace. supported - Provided support to Triyam Data Archiving vendor with 3 hospitals BrookDaleUniv. Hospital, Interfaith Medical Center and KingsBrook Jewish Medical Center with Supported theacquisition, management/ Data Extraction and Archiving for 23 Legacy EMR, Lab and SpecialtyApplications. Meditech -Clinicals, Medsphere- Wellsoft EDIS, Sunquest -Copath, Wellsky- MedlinksIRF(Rehab Clin Docs. RAS DB-Technology, Sunquest -LIS, Reliable- Visual - Billing Docs. Siemens Syngo- Dynamics Clinical Documentation, Cerner Eagle PA- Revenue Cycle, GE -Centricity &Scheduling, Soft-lab- Lab Application, Cerner Clinicals, 3M Platform 7.5- Chart Mgm Module,Meditech- Revenue Cycle & A/R, Cerner - Pharmacy, Wesley -Medlinks IRF (Rehab Clin Docs(ARCHIVE), E- Clinical Works- AEMR, Net-health- Wound Expert, EClinicalWorks- Scanned Doc’s Developed automated quality control procedures to assess quality of data and provided reports to data owners.Worked effectively within a group setting in areas of design of data collection instruments, databasemanagement, analysis of data, and creation of reports and dashboards. Developed and performed appropriateEMR analyses. Provided explanations of analysis methods, assumptions made, and assisted in interpretation ofresults and implications therein. Documented methods and results through development and maintenance of standard documentation artifactsinclusive of data dictionaries, standard operating procedures and analysis methodology descriptions. Workedwith onsite and field-based counterparts to coordinate consistent implementation of data quality controlmeasures and provision of access to the central data repositories. Collected, organized, analyzed and disseminated significant amounts of information with attention to detail andaccuracy. Developing data models and analytical tools for use in evaluating business 
performance, analyzingtrends, and generating reports presenting these analyses. Produce relevant metrics, actionable insights andrecommendations through data querying, validation, and analysis using analytics tools such as: Tableau, PowerBI, Excel, etc. Develop and maintain reports using tools such as: PeopleSoft Query, Oracle BI Publisher andSQL, OBIEE (Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition), Access, and Excel. Translate businessrequirements to technical requirements and facilitate communication between diverse audiences. Steward/Healthcare, IASAS Healthcare, Franklin, TN 11/2017 - 05/2018 Sr.PM Cerner/3M/ HIM Operations Coordinator - Merger & Acquisition Coordinated Implementation resources for Cerner/3M RHIT and RHIA coding support. Provided (SME) forCerner Access HIM, MPages-CCL-HTML, FHIR L7 supported Cerner’s Inpatient and Outpatient workflows.Completed routine service packs, created user accounts, provided doctor master maintained, ADT Providedanalysis of Interfaces, Clinical Data extracts, Ad hoc reports supported daily and weekly staff meeting. Providedanalysis of 3M Coding & Reimbursement. Supported Ambulatory/Revenue Management Systems (ARMS) and Health Data Management (HDM). Serveas the Cerner Millennium build resource coordinator for 5 hospitals inclusive of Profile, Provision SupportsDocument Imaging, Clinical Reporting XR, Remote Report Distribution, Messaging and Event Set Hierarchybuild. Provides Cerner/3M Super User, adding new users, build insurance plans and adding physician’s rightsand access.Supports full phase testing of NextGen, Cerner, 3M, Omnicell – Unity and hospital conversion project.Provide service code additions, order set modifications. Regression testing of SPs break/fix tickets.Provide tier1,2 and 3 level on call daily and weekly support.Provide Cerner system upgrades support (Test scripts build andvendor coordination, staff coordination and Go Live Support. Health Partners Plans, Philadelphia, Pa 02/2017-11/2017 Sr. Erp. Clinical Business System and Revenue Cycle Manager Provided build analysis for HPP’s 28 McKesson CCMS Admin module projects. Supported health planassessments, reporting, Letters, triggers, configurations and automation of processes and procedures. Providedfacilitation and elicitation of project scope and assumptions of customer’s business requirements. Translatedbusiness requirements into IT solutions (Detail Design). Prioritize IT claims options for solutions-Identifiedpros and cons for each option.Provided systems installations and upgrades, maintenance and optimization, configuration and Interfacemapping. Preformed system integrated Testing, Supported UserAcceptance Testing. Coordinated productioncontrol requirements-Root Cause Analysis, Solution design and solution implementation.Supported Clinical systems and workflow applications- CCMS-Utilization Management, Case Management,Diseases Management, InterQual, Maces, Form Works and RRI. T r u i t t H e a l t h / H e a l t h c a r e I n t e r o p e r a b i l i t y S o l u t i o n s G r o u p L L C 08/2016-02/2017 PMO-Director Interim 
Provided a detailed Gap Assessments of 4 Layers/Phases with recommendations from Leadership for resolution! Provided a assessment for SMRMC Paragon EHR environment for clinical and revenue cycle operations review to optimize resources and cost factor to achieve SMRMC desired outcome while leveraging Truitt Health knowledge and industry best practice. I provided a roadmap to achieve MACRA compliance document specific to the needs of SMRMC. I provided a plan to assess IT hospital infrastructure to meet Paragon and MU# 3 operational goals. I incorporated the SMRMC operational goals related to the future state clinical and revenue cycle opportunities to resolve current state obstacles. Prepared a Paragon optimizations Implementation Plan capable of streamlining the clinical and revenue cycle workflows for Ancillary Systems- Well soft, McKesson Lab, Blood Bank and Patient Folder.(Onecontent) Virtua Health/ Healthcare Interoperability Solutions Group LLC 01/2016– 08/2016 Sr. Inteface/ Business Applications Analyst Provided Virtua Health’s business application dept. the implementation workflow assessment for MPF v17 Onecontent upgraded, Epic Integrations with Cold Feeds, Siemens Envision, Cerner Millennium, Power Chart eSignature, Content 360 Work Queue Manager and Lab, FormFast, Gaffe (EDI) and Siemens Pharmacy. Supported the Interoperability of more than 300 locations using McKesson MPF Legal archiving and imaging database as well as Epics’ full suite of tools. Provided academic medical centers and large integrated delivery systems such as Penn University, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), Johns Hopkins, New York University, Cleveland Clinic and Kaiser Permanente. Supporting both CVS and Walgreens in chosen the Epic platform for their minute clinics. Met with key stakeholders to discuss and translate information from key departments to building of application tables and parameters as required and based on the specs and documents pre build BDI Siemens Radiology, Ingenix (PICIS) IBEX, Siemens Pharmacy, GE Muse, Soarian Clinical sPOC and Soarian CPOE. Prepared integrated testing plan/scenarios. Created Cerner reports per the specs documentation and development of data conversion processes with activities and migrations to multiple server platforms. W e l l C a r e H e a l t h P l a n , I n c / I n s i g h t G l o b a l 09/2015– 01/2016 Sr. Claims Business Applications Consultant (Contractor) Provided, Well Care Business Appeals & Grievance Pega project build for a single unified platform for processing Complaints, Appeals and Grievances (CAG) for WellCare customers. Identified barriers and risks around the business process based on knowledge of Health Information Systems and operations management. Increased enterprise reporting accuracy and data consistency with consistent processes and data elements. Improve the ability to adhere to internal and external Service Level Agreements (SLAs).Captured cost savings from reduced financial and legal exposure as well as decrease training time for new CAG coordinators by providing an intent-driven PRPC-based process. Establish data to support internal & external audit responsibilities for professional and Institutionalize claims. Supported the lack of BPM Implementation experience within the claims backlog Calculation Spreadsheet. Trained new users on the LEMM (DEA) Implementation and installation License Expiration Monitoring Module, Cactus, EASY Group, Pega, TFS, and Optum. Developed the price rule configure in the XcelysPROD Data Base. Supported the UNIX Infrastructure team, Optum Rate Management team, DBA team, Release management team, Infrastructure Windows 
Team and DELL team. Supported the Pega 7 - Care Management & Appeals and Grievances application. Managed WellCare business applications Xcelys, Cactus, CES, ICES, Optum Rate Manager, Web Strat and EASY choice United Healthcare Group/Optum360 Health/ Judge Group 04/2015– 09/2015 EMR Engagement Implementation Manager Lead managed and supported HEDIS outcomes for HL7 x2.5 Lab Results Hemoglobin A1C and HL7/v3 CDA data standard review for the deployment of a more efficient Clinical Data Exchange and Integrations processes. While expanding the Supplemental Data Management processes inclusive Regional and Global Engagements, EMR Onsite/Remote, HL7x 2.5 standard Data Implementations of (125 Provider Locations) and HEDIS roadmap documentation and data provisioning related to the management of supplemental data sources for HEDIS data collection. Provide time line engagements with healthcare providers to enable the successful implementation of electronic clinical data exchange. Drove meaningful communication and rapid implementation of provider locations for electronic clinical data exchange and integration. Provided Tracking /Reporting of (125) providers engagements and milestones statuses in a timely and high quality manner using IMPACT Salesforce.com CRM Tool. I’ve ensured step by step HIPAA Business Associate Agreement/ EMR use and access Confidentiality and Compliance Agreement reviews of all EMR access appropriate to Providers contract agreements with United Health Group to enable Onsite/Remote access to electronic medical records with 125 provider locations. T e n e t H e a l t h c a r e C o r p o r a t i o n / H S M 06/2014-04/2015 ICD 10 Implementation Consultant Lead point person for (Beta) SATX Market STAR v18, v19, v20 solution and Applications impacted by ICD-10 uplift. Responsible for updating documents to both Baptist Health System and Tenet Corporate SharePoint Sites. Scheduled Bi-weekly team meetings with the Dept. Managers, Technical Analyst Corporate Leadership. Updated STAR project plan reported results to Tenet Executive Steering Committee. Acted as (STAR-SME) ICD-10 Remediation Liaison for Tenet Healthcare Leadership and Baptist Health System, Vanguard Health System, San Antonio Market and Vendors McKesson, Cerner, 3M 360 Encompass, Medicity an All scripts. McKesson Accelerated Service Consultants, HSM Consultants and Dell Consultants for the STAR v18, v19, v20 Uplift as well as the ICD-10 Beta Remediation roll out. Gathered, documented clinical, financial and technical requirements, defined scope of work, performed risk assessment and escalated issues to Leadership as it related to the STAR v18, v19, v20/PCON/MLAB- Uplift and ICD-10 Beta Remediation project. Analyzed evaluated Maintained Spearheaded the alignment of 64 clinical and revenue cycle applications to meet SATX Market Business Uplift needs. Coordinated Evaluated Maintained STAR v18 Live Navigator systems set up, tested new system windows 7 functionality and analyzed the impacted workflows for the STAR v18, v19, v20 Uplift and ICD-10 Beta Remediation. ACS Xerox HPS / Anthelio Health/ Heathland 05/2013-06/2014 Sr. Clinical Systems Analyst Consultant 
 Manage and supervise enterprise-wide implementations for acute care, ambulatory care, critical care and long-term care facilities. Partnered with hospital management, stakeholders, providers and staff to define business ECM needs for the future state client's EMR/EHR utilization. Performed 25 successful EMR/EHR implementations including Interface development, training of providers/nursing staff, implementing financial (Revenue Cycle), Classic/Net new EMR Centriq hospital/clinic systems. Performed Revenue Cycle operations support of Hospital/Clinics pre-authorization, pre-admission review, denials management and claims adjudication also conducted Implementation and oversight of Headland’s EMR solution. Provided guidance while setting project timeframes and priorities that directly affected the work activities. Conducted Health Maintenance schedule rules build for clients purchased contracts. Build patient chart paging patient mobile communication, transcription and paging cutoff dates. Completed clinic application set up for facilities licensed on Rcopia Dr. First prescribing. Built the cross-references for Dr. First Units of Measure Routes and Medication forms to avoid mismatches between Dr. First Net New Centriq Master Files. Prepared clinics for Medical Necessity Checking for Automatic & Manual back up process. Perform HL7 Interface builds and enabled Health Maintenance SQL jobs. Christopher Colin Greene Page 3 • Cell phone 3854274635 • Chrisgerry19@gmail.com E N G A G E M E N T H I G H L I G H T S ( c o n t ‘ d ) 3m/ CitiusTech 08/2012-05/2013 Project Implementation Manager Provided -Clinical framework analytics support an integrated approach for clinical, operational, financial and regulatory performance management of 3M healthcare organizations. Supported multiple vendors inclusive of McKesson’s Relay Health/Cloverleaf, Cerner Open Engine Tool Solutions Enable HL7 documentation feeds from the Hospital systems to 3M 360 Encompass. Provided facilities optimization planning organizing coordination of Cerner Power Chart Ambulatory and Cerner Millennium Enterprise. Build and supported 3M Cerner Clinical Decision Support Interface Builds inclusive of messages from disparate Systems such as Meditech, McKesson, Siemens. Provided 3M project managers with alignment of implementations for document scoping activities for Hospitals and delivered training materials for 3M customers using 360 Encompass R2, CAC, CRS & Ensemble and HL7 x2.5 Interface. Performed 3M 360 document scoping support & formatting documentation for (10) 3M H/clients. Performed Interface scoping, tables build reference tables, Web CVConfig-access- configurations for 3M 360 product customer Implementation Training Checklist to Enable functions (Turn On), support for Cerner Open Engine Tool, Ensemble I/F Engine, Cerner BMDI set-up and transformed processes and workflows of Cerner solutions into standardized practices.
North East Georgia Health System 2/2012 to 08/2012 Clinical Informatics' Consultant Supported all iforms, outlines, order set and table build of McKesson Horizon Physician Portal 13.1.1. Delivered build, test, training and support of McKesson's Paragon clinical / financial application inclusive of Accounts Payable Vendor Maintenance Release 11.x, Paragon Logon/Logoff Release 11.x, and Paragon A/P.Coordinated preparations for client build design, implementation, communication, maintenance, evaluation for existing system functionalities related to clinical information systems. Spearheaded development and execution of standardized methodologies for testing major hospital system functionalities prior to production release. Provided Clinical/Revenue Cycle teams support with developing, monitoring, and managing technology support and operational implementation work plans. Provided support for Paragon Clinical Care Station (CA&CP), Paragon Pharmacy, Paragon Orders Management, Paragon CPOE (includes WSP activities). Developed Paragon Application modules as well as build workflow processes. Supported pre go-live support preparations for client build design, implementation, communication, maintenance evaluations for existing horizon application system functionalities related to new hospital locations. PROMEDICA Home HealthCare/ESD 12/2011 to 2/2012 (project valued at $30 million) Sr. Implementation Consultant Supported GO-LIVE for clinical staff day-to-day training, maintaining documentation in the appropriate application while adhering to prescribed escalation & change control procedures. Developed, communicated and collaborated with external and internal nursing staff members to analyze clinical needs and functional requirements. Provided Admin Rx build, design and functionality processes based on Meaningful Use requirements. Conducted ongoing AdminRx training and support of a nursing super-user group and individual end users. Trained physicians on the collection of data for PQRI, core measures and best practices for regulatory report-ability, provided Tier 2 and Tier3 level support. Trained nursing staff on the Omnicell medication dispensing system. KERN MEDICAL CENTER/Jacobus 08/2011 to 12/2011 Sr. Management Consultant IT/ STAR Revamped several patient registration processes and supporting STAR 2000 functions, OpenVista’s Care Vue Physician Training for new residents. Supported OpenVista’s with VTE Prophylaxis Orders & Process, Mechanical VTE Codes and VTE/PE Admission Process. Provided OpenVista’s operation plans Radiology Work, Clinical Work, Lab Work, Nutrition Work and Pharmacy Work. Optimized Kern Medical Center’s Practice Partner (EMR) application for 400 providers. Spearheaded the plan for an RTE (real time eligibility) solution vendor selection addressing and identifying gaps. Evaluated the interface between 3M Coding application and the current STAR 2000 system. Implemented a more effective use of billing holds in STAR 2000 financials. Built a tighter integration between new DSG claims processing system and STAR 2000. Turned up ABN functionality with LMRP integration. 
Improved the scanning and archiving of admissions docs into HPF and supported use of color scanners for critical identification documents. Improved the use of HPF for archiving several critical remote clinic docs, medication list, patient complaint lists, physician progress notes and ACOG forms. Washington Medical Center 05/2011 to 8/2011 Sr. Pharmacy Systems/ Applications Manager Led Pharmacy Information System Dose Edge implementation for Ambulatory and Acute care-facilities. Project Supported pharmacist preparation check dose review and approval. Project Managed dispensing scheduled Pyxis workflow processes. Managed Dose Edge implementation for reporting of IV and oral dose management, compounding, and inspecting, tracking reporting of medications. Implemented Dose Edge Pharmacy System Solutions for IV Prep Stations, Oral Prep Stations, Chemo Prep Stations and Parental Nutrental Nutrition Workstations (TPN).Preformed HL7 Interface build review for integration transition. Supported Omnicell medication dispensing system optimization upgrade. Bluffton Regional Medical Center/ CHS 01/2011 to 5/2011 Sr. System Applications Manager Developed HTML standard Iforms build for Bluffton Regional Medical Center's clinical and non-clinical application system build as it corresponds with ARRA. Participated in the HEO build version 10.3 with upgrading to 11.0. Provided multi-facility system design and configuration Meditech to LHN standard. Conducted the implementation of BRMC's Downtown/ Main Campus (inpatient/ER 89 bed facility).Developed outlines for general surgeries as well as Infectious Disease, Orthopedic, Pain Management and Podiatry. Provided iForms build for pre-cardiac device implant order sets, cardiology radial access, cardiology PRN meds (REV-11-10). Created the following: standard iForms build (VGR and Standard) templates, HTML using naming conventions, Facility Orderable with tests, DS Module with Tests, Created DS Actions. Conducted workflow review for Omnicell automated dispensing cabinets. Duke University Medical Hospital 10/2010 to 12/2010 Sr. System Applications Manager Supported EMR Applications/Technical for Duke University Hospital, Surgery Center, and Primary Care. Led the systems conversion from McKesson to EPIC HIM for Private Diagnostic Clinics, Urgent Care, Home Care and Hospice Healthcare. Managed e-Prescribing Readiness Support Applications & Duke Health Technology Systems which Included Configuration Management, Feature Set's, Staff Roles, Provider Locations, Practice Support EDI set up. Executed workflow assessments and created comprehensive training and learning plan for the medical staff that more than doubled EMR access and utilization. Maintained Duke University's TechEd Classroom training, documentation and support for physician and staff.
Eisenhower Primary Care Center /McKesson 04/2010 to 10/2010 Sr. McKesson HPP Consultant Provided implementation and product support to all 7 locations inclusive of application configuration, application training, for Horizon Ambulatory Care EMR) and (HPP) Horizon Practice Plus, Practice Management System. Provided systems training and support to multiple Primary Care Center locations. Trained providers and staff on McKesson Horizon Practice Partner (EMR) Management System as well as HAC (Horizon Ambulatory Care EMR) on workflow integration via utilization of the Apple iPad. Spearheaded the build, design and configuration of McKesson’s documentation templates and released into production for clinical documentation utilization in SOAP format across all locations. Trained physicians on the collection of data for PQRI, core measures and best practices for regulatory report- ability, managed documentation and maintenance of problems and issues. McKesson/ Gwinnett Medical 02/2007 to 04/2010 (project valued at $2.2 million) Sr. Implementation Consultant Provided Tier 2 and Tier 3 support, customization build support and classroom training to providers and staff at Gwinnett Medical Center of Gwinnett and Duluth, GA hospitals. Applications included: Horizon Expert Orders, Care Organizer, Care Alerts, AdminRx, HCI, Horizon Cardiology, Pathway Compliance Advisor and Horizon Physicians Portal. Supported the transition of multiple hospitals in the Gwinnett Medical Systems providing software upgrades, workflow assessment, and application support to include: Horizon Physicians Portal, Horizon Care Organizer, Horizon Expert Orders, and Horizon Care Organizer, Horizon Emergency Care, Horizon Admin RX and Horizons Medical Manager 10.i version. Supported McKesson Large(VAR) (Value Added Resellers) community conducting design and analysis for McKesson’s Medisoft Clinical, Lytec MD, Practice Partner and Horizon Suite Applications. Developed, installed and trained McKesson’s’ Practice Partner, Medisoft clients for V12, V13, V14, V15 and Horizon Applications. Responsible for installing HAC with integrated applications such as HPF, Physician Portal, building of code tables, ID types, roles and permissions, location tables, organizational setup and configuration. Conducted Go Live implementation of Omnicell medication, anesthesia and pharmacy for 5 hospitals. Trained McKesson’s VARS in the development of 2017 future features and functionality of mobile applications; Spearhead unit and integrated testing and documentation of outcomes, served as the primary contact for the application design, supported the development of systems operations, policies, and application monitoring for EMR and PM systems. ACS Government/Xerox Rational Business Systems Analyst $ 50 Million integrations of CMMI level 2 compliance standards and MMIS subsystems standards for Government 01/2005 to 01/2006 Supported ACS Government Healthcare Solutions in the development of request for proposals (RFP) and FDLC technological solutions delivery for Medicare and Medicaid enterprise systems nationwide. 
Developed use case based on clients' requirements for various State requests for proposals, worked with QA/Test team to validate and resolve deficiencies. Developed and designed artifacts, database diagrams, architecture model diagrams and workflow-diagrams monitored and managed changes to baseline usage models via the solutions center change management process. Performed daily functional and regression testing on Web-based applications developed with an SDLC methodology which included use-case analysis, test case creation and test execution. Performed daily functional and regression testing on Web-based applications developed with an SDLC methodology which included Use Case analysis, test case creation and test execution. Developed and maintained large scale systems that process Medicare and Medicaid database for clients such as Blue Cross Blue Shield of GA, California Enrollment Brokers, Alaska Medicaid, Colorado Medicaid, and Montana Medicaid. Developed methodologies and standards to achieve client objective such as E D U C A T I O N & P R O F E S S I O N A L D E V E L O P M E N T Qatutor- Software Quality Assurance Tester- Actively Penn Foster- Pharmacy Technician-Actively Bachelor of Science Social Work/Law, Social Relations, Certificate of Academic Excellence Cheyney State University of Pennsylvania, Cheyney, PA Professional Development SCRUM, Agile and Project Delivery 2013 SCRUM Body of Knowledge 2013 ENT Communication Skills CS Windsor Xcelys Authorization Master Screens C360 Associate Training 2015 WellCare Cultural Competency for Vendors 2015 HIPAA Privacy and Security at WellCare rev0415 General Data Compliance Training Compliance Program and CIA 2015 Technical Skills Google doc Smart sheet, Ultra-Edits Highlights used XML, JavaScript, and C #, CSS, C/CH, HTML, Java, JavaScript, MySQL 5.1, Visual Basic, Perl, PHP and Python, Ruby, VBScript ASP VGR CRM Management Structures SharePoint Admin Reporting Tool SQL,MS Project MS Visio 2010 Standard MS Office Excel, PowerPoint PeopleSoft Java Updates Java 64-bit Remedy Server-EPM Norton Virus Protection Spyware Doctor Virus Protection Melwarebytes-Anti-Malware Hard Drive Encryption-safe Boot 12 BizAgi Snag It , SAP HR.NET GADWIN Dragon Voice Recognition Medical Jabber CutePDF TCP/IP Upper Layer Protocol (ULP) Interfaces/ Internal/External 
EpicCarelink, Rhapsody, DHS, Dr.First Rcopia Escribe, Relay Health (TSH), Sure Scripts, RxHub, PBM, HMS, Pyxis, HTML, Ribbon C#, VPN Gateway 2, Cisco Any- Connect, Open Air, Same time, SharePoint, ASP.Net-MVC, Cognos, RUP, Soda Reporting, Crystal Reporting Citrix, HL7x2.5 Lab Results Standardization HL7 v3.0 Interface, Oracle, Unix Shell Scripting, CPSQL, UI Skin Design, GUI Design, HIM, HIE, CDM, Omni cell, AccuDose, PACS, 