February 20, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC)
Attention: Request for Information: HHS Health Sector Artificial Intelligence (AI) RFI
Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Submitted electronically to: http://www.regulations.gov
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane:
Health Level Seven (HL7) International welcomes the opportunity to provide feedback on the
HHS Health Sector AI RFI and what HHS can do to accelerate the adoption and use of AI as
part of clinical care. This letter includes perspectives from our leadership and Policy Advisory
Committee.
Overall, HL7 encourages ASTP/ONC to actively engage our organization as its plan to
accelerate the adoption and use of AI as part of clinical care is constructed and deployed. HL7
is a rich resource with:
(1) Leadership steeped in AI, including our CEO Rachel Dunscombe and dedicated Chief AI
Officer Dr. Daniel Vreeman, DPT;
(2) Recent and relevant legacy HL7 AI Taskforce and Initiative work;

(3) AI public-private sector policy convenings, such as HL7 policy conference on healthcare
interoperability, genomics and AI. HL7 also has critical Work Groups and Accelerators
focused on clinical care issues; and
(4) World-leading and globally relevant expertise regarding standards that incorporate
appropriate rules and usage of AI.
HL7 is the global authority on healthcare interoperability and a critical leader developing open
standards that drive digital health innovation. As such, we stand ready to support ASTP/ONC in
better understanding the promises, complexities and challenges at the crossroads of standards,
interoperability, clinical care, policy and AI.
As a Standards Development Organization (SDO) with broad-ranging public-private sector
membership, HL7 has a front row seat to many complexities and more serious issues emerging
with AI use in healthcare and clinical care that we wish to highlight for HHS in response to this
RFI such as:
• Currently, both health information technology systems and users do not always know what
data was generated or modified by an AI tool or what tool was used-- therefore the data can
appear falsely, as if it was generated only by a clinical user.
• AI models can generate actions around care delivery that are incorrect (like inaccurate
categorization of cardiac or cancer risk). An optimal way to identify those mistakes within
medical records and correct them must be identified. This kind of metadata is also key for
safety.
• There are not requirements or transparency around the monitoring of known AI issues like
model degeneration and hallucination (confident but false, fabricated or nonsensical
information generated by AI models).
Specific to the effort to further understand what HHS can do to accelerate the adoption and
use of AI as part of clinical care; we highlight the following expert HL7 resources:
HL7 Artificial Intelligence (AI) Office
HL7 has an AI Office focused on establishing foundational standards for safe, trustworthy and

scalable AI in healthcare and convening the global community driving this transformation. The
new office keeps HL7 at the forefront of healthcare's AI revolution, creating frameworks that
ensure emerging technologies are trusted, explainable, interoperable and scalable across
clinical, operational and research settings worldwide. It also ensures that healthcare
interoperability and AI have a productive and symbiotic relationship, maximizing the promise of
interoperability for better care, while continuing and expanding healthcare efficiencies. These
are significant. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development estimates that
the value of enabling interoperable sharing of health data is between 2.70% to 6.64% of health
system expenditure and may be as high as 17%.
HL7 serves as the trusted global convener for responsible, standards-driven AI innovation—
ensuring these transformative technologies deliver on their promise to improve health for all.
Leading this initiative, HL7 has appointed Daniel Vreeman, DPT, as its first Chief AI Officer
(CAIO). A globally recognized biomedical informatics expert, Dr. Vreeman expanded his role as
Chief Standards Development Officer to drive HL7's comprehensive AI strategy, including the
HL7 AI Challenge, anti-fraud initiatives, and collaborations with regulators and industry
partners globally. In our newest AI partnership, HL7 has become a founding member of the
Vigilant AI Monitoring and Operations System (VAMOS) Collaborative --a consortium of leading
academic medical centers and industry partners focused on AI governance and
algorithmovigilance --through open standards and platforms.
In January 2026, HL7 conducted the first ballot of a new specification: the AI Transparency on
FHIR Implementation Guide. This specification will provide crucial implementation guidance for
the key aspects of documenting when FHIR resources have been created, updated, or
influenced by AI. This type of data-level transparency-- the practice of openly disclosing how AI
systems work, including their data sources, logic and decision-making processes--is essential
for establishing trustworthy AI systems.
HL7 AI Taskforce
HL7 had previously convened a dedicated AI Initiative and Taskforce. We worked in
collaboration with multiple partners -- in both the public and private sectors -- to develop white
papers and guidance to ensure the reliability, safety and security of AI. HL7 is happy to share
important lessons learned in these efforts. A May 2025 report specific to AI, healthcare,
payment integrity and fraud can be found at:

https://info.hl7.org/ai-report
HL7 Work Groups, Accelerators and Other Efforts
HL7 Work Groups, FHIR Accelerators and special initiatives are conducting cutting-edge
healthcare, interoperability and standards work very relevant to the HHS Health Sector AI RFI
and accelerating the adoption and use of AI as part of clinical care. A few cross-cutting topics
these groups address with direct relevance for AI use cases include: data quality, provenance,
consent, metadata labels and integrating external decision support applications into clinical
workflows.
HL7 executive and policy leaders can facilitate structured, focused dialogue with HHS and
these HL7 groups that have practical and field-leading expertise. Full listings for our HL7 Work
Groups, Accelerators and information on our Policy Advisory Committee can be accessed at:
http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/index.cfm?ref=nav
https://www.hl7.org/about/fhir-accelerator/
https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/PAC/pages/76159333/Policy+Advisory+Committee+Home
Specific Comments
HL7’s open, consensus-based standards serve as the essential digital foundation that enables
innovative companies and startups to securely access, analyze and derive insights from
healthcare data, accelerating the development of AI-powered solutions that can dramatically
improve patient outcomes while reducing costs across the U.S. healthcare system. By
supporting HL7 through the HHS AI and related initiatives, the federal government can unlock
unprecedented market-driven innovation through ensuring standardized, interoperable health
data exchange that allows new entrants and established players to compete based on the value
they deliver, rather than being blocked by proprietary data silos. A strategic investment in HL7
standards would catalyze a new wave of American healthcare entrepreneurship, enabling data-
driven and AI-backed solutions to flourish in a competitive marketplace that rewards improved
health outcomes, ultimately making healthcare more accessible, efficient and effective for all
Americans. These comments relate to the general RFI request for information and RFI question
8, Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and
accelerate the development of AI for clinical care?

Regarding insight on high priority policy items as articulated in RFI question 2, HL7
recommends that the federal government should adopt voluntary consensus healthcare
standards broadly in regulatory and sub-regulatory policies that govern the use of AI. This
includes standards for creating, deploying, operating, measuring, reporting and ensuring the
needed transparency, safety and privacy in use of AI. Adopting voluntary consensus standards
that comply with the World Trade Organization’s Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade,
such as American National Standards Institute (ANSI)-accredited American National Standards,
is the optimal way for regulation to support the competitiveness of United States innovation in
AI. HL7 emphasizes that the best organization to take on an AI standards effort should be a
broad based and ANSI-accredited one. Our organization is immediately ready and willing to
provide the necessary and critical AI leadership HHS needs at this time. HL7 has flagship AI
initiatives underway and is leading dialogue and progress on the four key objectives in ANSI’s
The United States Standards Strategy 2025 as they relate to AI which are to:
1. Strengthen U.S. commitment to international standards by leading strategic collaboration
and defending against geopolitical manipulation;
2. Demonstrate standards’ broad value by expanding education about how standards drive
innovation, safety and market access;
3. Make standards development more efficient by embracing process innovation and
training the next generation of standards leaders; and
4. Address opportunities and challenges head-on through active participation in developing
emerging technology standards and sustained investment in the standards ecosystem.
HL7 also notes that the need for AI transparency is paramount because clinical care operates
in a high-stakes, regulated, trust-dependent environment where opaque decision-making can
directly affect patient safety, equity and legal accountability.
Lastly, HL7 supports federal preemption of conflicting state laws to prevent undue burden and
ensure consistent application and regulation of AI. When states impose conflicting standards,
measures and other requirements, then significant burdens can prevent achieving the potential
benefits of AI. Such pre-emption is highlighted in documents such as the December 2025
Executive Order Ensuring a National Policy Framework for Artificial Intelligence.

Should you have any questions about our attached comments, please contact Rachel
Dunscombe, Chief Executive Officer of Health Level Seven International at ceo@HL7.org. We
look forward to continuing this discussion and offer our assistance to you on this topic that is
critical to the future of our nation’s healthcare.
Sincerely,
Rachel Dunscombe Caroline Macumber
Chief Executive Officer Board of Directors, Chair
HL7 International HL7 International