| am participating in my employer's response to specific technical interoperability comments but also have
personal comments for this RFI. For context, here is a summary of my background as to how | come to my
recommendations:

® 30 years healthcare experience across multiple settings

® 20 years health technology implementation and adoption

® 20 years privacy & security compliance

® 15 years in federal and state legislative and regulatory advocacy pertaining to health IT, interoperability, privacy,
security, quality payment programs, public health, and Medicaid

® 5 years facilitating innovation through standards development, accreditation programs, and strategic partnerships

My comments are these:

No matter what policy and implementations come forth from the results of this RFI, adoption cannot be fully realized
unless CMS and ASTP engage intimately with the impacted stakeholders. In my many years of experience | have
witnessed consistently that policy makers and technology developers have created frameworks, tools, mechanisms, and
models that may work perfectly at a macro or technical functionality level but are not being used, or used fully, by those
giving, receiving, or paying for care. There are so many gaps in implementation and adoption whereby the end users do
not know a technology exists, has had it insufficiently implemented, or does not have the adequate resources (financial,
technically adept workforce, time, etc) to execute implementation and subsequent optimizations. Given that, | would
like to offer the two following recommendations:

=» "True" real world testing. In other words, getting to the actual workflow and experience in every size, type,
and geography of organization or user/stakeholder. For example, not once in any of my personal
encounters for care, payment, or diagnostics have | ever fully experienced interoperability, access,
digitization in a manner that | Know to be possible given the work that | do. Such as when my PCP finds
my test results from another health system via our state HIE (good!) but then prints it out to have staff
scan back into the system (bad!) because they either do not have, or do not know how, to import into
their EHR in a discrete manner that will populate key fields that will satisfy quality measures and decision
support. | would like to see HHS develop a program to assess these issues more closely. This could look
like a ‘tracer’ or ‘secret shopper’ type of approach to see how this really works in practice. By contrast, if
an organization or vendor knows HHS is asking to see this, they will show you everything that is working
the best or in theory, not what the staff or consumers are experiencing on a daily basis.

= Institute a technical assistance pathway that is more than guidance or implementation documents. It
needs to be hands-on support with organizations. | recommend this vs. lump sums of incentive money
because the organization who needs the most help may not know that the best use of those funds may
be best spent on a consultant or a specific type of technical staff member. Also, giving incentive
payments may or may not be sustainable into the future. Usually the latter. Knowing this, sometimes
organizations are reticent to use it to updgrade technical environments because they won't be able to
keep up the improvement due to future funds. For instance, | worked with a state public health
department on where they were hesitant to apply for modernization funding because it would come ina
large sum and couldn't sustain their infrastructure far into the future and they didn't believe the funds
would continue. Which turned out to be a legitimate fear as public health funding has decreased.
Guidance on how to implement and sustain any technical improvements will be essential to true
adoption.
