 June 16, 2025 Via Electronic Submission Dr. Thomas Keane Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology Depart ment of Heal th and H uman Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Attention: CMS -0042 -NC 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244 -1850. RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS -0042 -NC) Philips is please d to respond to the Request for Information on the health technology ecosystem, published in th e Federal Register on May 16, 2025 (CMS -0042 -NC). We appreciate CMS’ engage ment with stakeholders on the use of digital tools and health products as they can play a tremendous role in improving care across the care continuum . Philips is a leading health technology company focused on improving people's health and well -being through meaningful innovation. Philips’ patient - and people -centric innovation leverages advanced technology and deep clinical and consumer insights to deliv er personal health solutions for consumers and professional health solutions for healthcare providers and their patients in the hospital setting , outpatient facilities , and the patient ’s home. Philips’ diagnostic and therapeutic solutions - diagnostic imaging, image -guided therapy, and remote cardiac monitoring – are used in the care of Medicare beneficiaries . Philips appreciates the opportunity to provide input on approaches and opportunities to streamline regulations and reduce administrative burdens on providers, suppliers, and most importantly, Medicare beneficiaries. In alignment with CMS , Philips support s efforts aimed at improving Medicare beneficiaries’ access to digital health products. A policy framework t hat drive s large -scale adoption of digital health will remove barriers to utilization and realize the potential of digital health to promote better health outcomes , and progress towards a patient -centric health system . 
 Definitions for Terms Used in This RFI : Philips is concerned the definitions used in the RFI fail to differentiate digital health tools that are FDA cleared from other digital health tools and products : • Digital tools: web, mobile or other software applications, potentially leveraging sensors, wearables, or other hardware. • Digital health products: defined as digital tools that support individual health needs. The definition of digital tools and products in the RFI lacks clarity and overlooks the importance of FDA approval. The regulatory process is crucial for guaranteeing that the digital tools and products used by Medicare beneficiaries demonstrate proven safety and effic acy. Witho ut th e requirement for FDA clearance , Medicare beneficiaries may rely overly on unregulated digital tools that do not promote quality care and could lead to increased costs for the Medicare program. Philips urges CMS to distinguish between FDA -cleared, clinically proven digital tools and unregulated digital tools with uncertain value and efficacy when developing the fram ework. Providers: PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas, to leverage approved digital health products for their patients? What are the current obstacles? Digital tools and health products are crucial for providing care to rural Medicare beneficiaries. These individuals often face multiple health conditions that require treatment across various service locations leading to challenges in maintaining continuity of care. The use of digital tools can help patients that may have limited access to providers , specialists , and facilities which can hinder care for rural Medicare beneficiaries . By leveraging digital tools and health products, we can significantly enhance the delivery of uninterrupted care. This is especially vital given the complexities of payment systems that vary by 
 site of service. The current payment structure when multiple providers or facilities provide care does not facilitate the effective use of digital tools, resulting in fragmented care for Medicare beneficiaries. As an example, digital health tools like remote monitoring can significantly reduce the length of hospital stays through early discharge when care can be provided seamlessly regardless of the patient’s location. However, challenges arise due to limited coverage and poor interoperability among different providers and care settings. We urge the agency to recognize the diverse and interconnected use of digital health products when used to coordinate patient care across sites of services – acute i npatient, outpatient, rehabilitation, home – while considering specific patient populations. We encourage CMS to explore incentives for digital health especially w hen it can facilitate seamless care delivery across care providers . Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks : TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer -term steps can CMS take to stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers? Without clarity of the reimbursement ecosystem , innovators may be discouraged from developing digital tools for Medicare populations, and providers may hesitate to adopt them due to financial uncertainty. Although the digital health sector is advancing quickly, reimbursement models have not evolved alongside these innovations. Many promising technologies —like remote monitoring tools, AI-driven diagnostics, and digital therapeutics —encounter major hurdles to adoption because of unclear or inconsistent reimbursement pathways. We encourage CMS to evaluate current coverage an d payment policies to identify barriers t hat hinder patient access to digital technologies. By offering clear and comprehensive reimbursement , education, and parity for digital health tools, CMS can better support their adoption. Establishing a clear and scalable framework for digital health tools that prove clinical bene fit eliminates uncertainties around reimbursement and recognize outcomes achieved through digital interventions . 
 As CMS develops its reimbursement framework, we urge the Agency to provide clear and comprehensive guidance to Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks regarding the types and quality of evidence needed to support its definition of reasonable and necessary. Philips believes that by defining the data requirements for Medic are coverage, CMS can help ensure that Medicare beneficiaries receive quality care, rather than depending on unregulated and unproven digital health tools. In conclusion, many digital health products can identify early physiological and behavioral changes, enabling timely interventions before a patient's condition deteriorates . However, unclear reimbursement pathways and coverage policies for these digital tools pose significant challenges to provider adoption and patient access. CMS’s leadership in establishing a reimbursement framework for digital tools and devices that allow integration into clinical care would greatly accelerate the development and utility of digital health tools. We appreciate the opportunity to provide our comments to the RFI . If Philips can provide additional information, please contact me at (857) 259 -9266 or susan.slaton@philips.com . Sincerely, Susan Slaton Senior Director Health Policy and Market Access Philips 222 Jacobs St Cambridge MA 02141 