February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Deputy Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Department of Health and Human Services
Mary E. Switzer Building
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Dear Dr. Keane,
I write today on behalf of Susan G. Komen (Komen) in response to the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) Request for Information on accelerating the adoption and use of artificial intelligence (AI)
as part of clinical care (RFI).
Komen is the world’s leading nonprofit breast cancer organization representing the millions of people
who have been diagnosed with breast cancer. Komen has an unmatched, comprehensive 360-degree
approach to fighting this disease across all fronts – we advocate for patients, drive research
breakthroughs, improve access to high quality care, offer direct patient support and empower people
with trustworthy information. Komen is committed to supporting those affected by breast cancer today,
while tirelessly searching for tomorrow’s cures. We advocate on behalf of the estimated 324,600 people
in the United States who will be diagnosed with breast cancer and the 42,670 who will die from the
disease in 2026 alone.
Impact of Artificial Intelligence on the Breast Cancer Community
Komen appreciates HHS’ attention to this important issue, including the RFI’s queries on how current
regulations impact AI adoption and use in clinical care, and how to establish a predictable regulatory
posture which protects patients and public trust.
In breast cancer care, AI is an emerging and rapidly changing issue with the potential to revolutionize
clinical practices, but Komen believes robust guardrails and accountability mechanisms need to be
established and maintained to protect patients. AI can play a role in breast cancer screening, diagnosis,
staging, biomarker evaluation, prognostication and therapeutic response prediction.1 In mammography,
AI has the potential to reduce turnaround time on reading screenings, ease burden on the workforce,2
and improve efficacy.3 Currently, the Food & Drug Administration has approved roughly two dozen AI
1 Ahn JS, Shin S, Yang SA, Park EK, Kim KH, Cho SI, Ock CY, Kim S. Artificial Intelligence in Breast Cancer Diagnosis and Personalized Medicine. J
Breast Cancer. 2023 Oct;26(5):405-435. doi: 10.4048/jbc.2023.26.e45. PMID: 37926067; PMCID: PMC10625863.
2 Ahsen, M.E., Ayvaci, M.U.S., Mookerjee, R. et al. Economics of AI and human task sharing for decision making in screening mammography. Nat
Commun 16, 2289 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-57409-1
3 Lång K, Josefsson V, Larsson AM, Larsson S, Högberg C, Sartor H, Hofvind S, Andersson I, Rosso A. Artificial intelligence-supported screen
reading versus standard double reading in the Mammography Screening with Artificial Intelligence trial (MASAI): a clinical safety analysis of a
randomised, controlled, non-inferiority, single-blinded, screening accuracy study. Lancet Oncol. 2023 Aug;24(8):936-944. doi: 10.1016/S1470-
2045(23)00298-X. PMID: 37541274.

products to help detect and diagnose cancer from mammograms.4 However, despite the promise of AI,
many challenges and questions remain.
Request for Information on Use of AI in Clinical Care
Patient Challenges and Concerns
Komen is concerned that use of AI in clinical care may expose patients to unexpected, increased costs.
Patients have reported being charged anywhere from $40-$100 extra for the use of AI to read
mammograms and without sufficient counseling or informed consent.5 Unexpected costs could deter
patients from seeking and completing life-saving breast cancer screening at regular intervals and may
also deter or delay adoption of appropriate technologies by patients or their providers.
Additionally, the data inputted into AI tools – both before and after deployment in a clinical setting – can
change its effectiveness. Research has shown that accessibility to bigger datasets from different sources
improves the performance of modeling.6 Right now, significant variation exists in the adoption of AI-
assisted mammography reading across the country which could change the quality of outcomes of the
technology. Clinics may work with different companies for AI-assisted mammography reading, and each
company’s algorithm may be trained on different datasets and achieve different end results. As such,
variability in algorithms is likely to increase over time as they learn and digest more data.
Model variation also could impact patients as the values encoded by AI algorithms affect their results.
For example, in breast cancer, a deep learning algorithm may prioritize minimizing false negatives over
minimizing false positives, perform differently depending on the characteristics of the breast tissue being
imaged, or not address all known risk factors.7 A major challenge in predicting breast cancer is the
creation of models that address these concerns and account for the conscious or unconscious bias
introduced by human coders. More research and evaluation are needed to ensure that only effective AI
models are being deployed and maintained in clinical settings.
Payment Policies
We encourage HHS to work with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to introduce new
billing codes which incentivize responsible use of AI. Despite FDA approvals of AI products to interpret
mammograms, no billing codes exist today for radiologists to use to charge health plans for their use.
Since providers cannot defray the costs of AI by billing insurance for its use, this lack of codes could be
contributing to the additional costs experienced by patients. Additional opportunities and information
on billing for the use of AI to interpret mammograms could create more predictability for patients and
providers alike.
CMS also could use reimbursement as an incentive for AI to be trained on standardized datasets which
are reflective of the general U.S. population and include requirements for periodically updating these
datasets. Providers and patients should be informed about the data for which AI technology is based,
4 U.S. Food & Drug Administration, Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Medical Devices, last updated Dec. 5, 2025, available at:
https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/artificial-intelligence-enabled-medical-devices?trk=article-ssr-frontend-
pulse_little-text-block; and Sheikh, Knvul (Apr. 9, 2025), A.I. Could Spot Breast Cancer Earlier. Should You Pay for It?, New York Times, available
at: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/08/well/live/ai-mammograms-breast-cancer.html.
5 Andrews, Michelle (Jan. 9, 2024), Mammography AI can cost patients extra. Is it worth it?, CBS News, available at:
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/mammogram-ai-cost-patients-is-it-worth-it/.
6 Rabiei R, Ayyoubzadeh SM, Sohrabei S, Esmaeili M, Atashi A. Prediction of Breast Cancer using Machine Learning Approaches. J Biomed Phys
Eng. 2022 Jun 1;12(3):297-308. doi: 10.31661/jbpe.v0i0.2109-1403. PMID: 35698545; PMCID: PMC9175124.
7 Stacy M. Carter, Wendy Rogers, Khin Than Win, Helen Frazer, Bernadette Richards, Nehmat Houssami. The ethical, legal and social
implications of using artificial intelligence systems in breast cancer care. The Breast, Vol. 49, 2020, Pages 25-32, ISSN 0960-9776,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.breast.2019.10.001.
2

specifically which populations are represented. Komen highlighted this issue in its comments to CMS on
its Proposed Rule on the 2026 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule.8 When it comes to mammography,
inadequate datasets could lead to inaccurate readings – as a country, we need to ensure that we are
effectively harnessing the technology of today to provide better outcomes for those who need it most.
Research
We also encourage HHS to invest in research into outcomes and performance of AI in breast cancer care.
Important research on use of AI in mammography is underway and needs to continue.
Last year, UCLA and UC Davis announced the first large-scale randomized trial of AI in breast cancer
screening in the United States.9 With a $16 million award from the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research
Institute (PCORI), the study, known as the PRISM Trial (Pragmatic Randomized Trial of Artificial
Intelligence for Screening Mammography) will evaluate whether AI can help support radiologists in
interpreting mammograms more accurately, with the goal of improving breast cancer screening and
reducing unnecessary callbacks and anxiety for patients. The multi-institutional clinical trial will study
hundreds of thousands of mammograms interpreted at academic medical centers and breast imaging
facilities in California, Florida, Massachusetts, Washington and Wisconsin. We encourage HHS to support
this and other research like it to evaluate how to responsibly optimize the use of AI while centering
patient experiences.
Conclusion
Komen appreciates the Administration’s interest in accelerating the responsible use of AI in clinical care
and for the opportunity to provide these comments. If you have any questions, or we may be of further
assistance, please do not hesitate to reach out to me at mguthrie@komen.org.
Sincerely,
Molly Guthrie
Vice President, Policy & Advocacy
Susan G. Komen
8 Susan G. Komen, Comments on Proposed Rule on calendar year (CY) 2026 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Sept. 12, 2025, available at: https://www.regulations.gov/comment/CMS-2025-0304-
13145.
9 UCLA Health (Sept. 23, 2025), UCLA to lead $16 million national study on artificial intelligence in breast cancer screening [Press release],
available at https://www.uclahealth.org/news/release/ucla-lead-16-million-national-study-artificial-intelligence.
3