February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology
Attention: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Mary E. Switzer Building
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane,
The Healthcare Business Management Association (HBMA) is pleased to submit this comment
letter in response to your request for information (RFI) titled: Accelerating the Adoption and Use
of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13).
We appreciate ASTP/ONC’s focus on understanding how AI can enhance clinical care. We urge
ASTP/ONC to also consider how AI’s integration into clinical care intersects with the back-end
revenue cycle management (RCM) process, which will be an essential factor in the proliferation
of AI into the clinical setting. We encourage the agency to issue similar RFIs in the future that
focus on the RCM process and to engage with stakeholders like HBMA through meetings and
industry focus groups.
Below, please find our responses to specific questions from the RFI.
Question 2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should
HHS prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS
regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or
use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal
Regulations citations.
AI has significant potential to improve the healthcare system. Not only can it help improve
clinical outcomes, it can also be used to improve administrative processes that create avoidable
burdens on clinicians. These burdens consume time and resources that could otherwise be used
on patient care.
Any conversation about the clinical applications of AI must be paired with the administrative
functions that accompany the clinical care such as the revenue cycle management (RCM)

process, documentation requirements, and quality improvement programs. Clinicians must be
adequately reimbursed for the care they provide. As with all medical services, clinicians must be
fairly compensated for new clinical applications that utilize AI.
AI should not be a justification to reduce reimbursement rates. The 2026 Medicare Physician Fee
Schedule (PFS) controversially finalized an “efficiency adjustment” which reduces Medicare
reimbursements due to the assumption that care becomes more efficient as clinicians gain more
experience. While this is often true, these efficiencies are more than offset by administrative and
financial burdens from government regulations and actions by commercial payers.
Clinicians are more likely to adopt AI tools in clinical care if it can generate efficiencies,
decrease burden, improve patient care, and if it is fairly reimbursed. HHS should understand that
every health system, hospital, physician office, medical specialty and clinician have different
needs and uses for AI in clinical care and the administrative functions of the healthcare system.
These needs widely vary both across the entire healthcare system and within individual health
systems and practices. Any federal AI policy must be responsive to these individual needs.
HBMA supports the development and use of AI for these beneficial purposes. However, our
industry is reliant on private sector innovation to develop and maintain these technologies.
Additionally, reimbursement policies set by commercial and government payers will have a
major impact on adoption of AI tools.
In addition to reimbursement rates, it is important to understand if payers will establish
burdensome documentation and administrative requirements for items and services that
incorporate AI or decrease payment rates based on potential efficiency improvements. For
example, will clinicians be required to document use of AI tools? Will they need to identify the
specific tool that was used? Will payers establish separate payment rates for the same procedure
depending on if AI is or is not used?
We encourage HHS to consider the administrative impacts of AI as part of any effort to promote
AI in clinical care. HHS should issue a new RFI on how the adoption of AI in clinical care will
impact administrative and revenue cycle processes.
We are already seeing commercial payers deploy AI to inappropriately deny higher volumes of
claims and prior authorization requests. These companies, which are among the largest
corporations in the country, have vast resources to utilize these tools for these purposes. Some of
these actions are subject to class action lawsuits and regulatory scrutiny.
We believe that government policies must ensure an even playing field for using AI across all
parts of the healthcare system. Frustratingly, commercial payers are increasingly relying on AI to
adjudicate claims at the same time they are stifling how clinicians use AI. For example, many
commercial payers will communicate with providers using automated AI phone calls. However,
these payers refuse to accept calls from providers using the same automated AI phone call
technologies. These phone calls are a practical way that AI can reduce administrative burdens by
facilitating tedious, time-intensive processes that allows humans to focus their time and energy
on more important work.

Question 3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may
raise novel legal and implementation issues that challenge existing governance and
accountability structures ( e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security).
What novel legal and implementation issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to
help address them?
Liability protections must be a central aspect of any policy that incentivizes the use of AI in
clinical care. Clinicians must have a clear understanding of their potential legal liability due to
alleged issues caused by AI tools. A robust AI policy must establish a definitive set of legal
liability protections for how clinicians use AI in clinical care. While there are many ways to
approach creating such protections, the most important part is that legal liability can be clearly
understood by all parties. A lack of clarity on this important topic could dissuade clinicians from
implementing AI tools in clinical care.
HHS also has a part to play in defining the privacy and security requirements around AI
applications for all involved parties, including AI developers, health systems, clinicians and
payers. Early and ongoing interpretation of existing laws and regulations and continued updates
as needed will help to remove roadblocks and clarify guardrails for implementation and
monitoring of AI in clinical settings.
Additionally, AI tools should be structured to enhance and support a clinician’s abilities. It
should not be used to replace a clinician. For example, some AI tools are designed to provide
mental health care but have actually offered incredibly dangerous medical advice. HHS should
draw a clear line that prevents AI tools from replacing clinicians.
Question 5. How can HHS best support private sector activities ( e.g., accreditation,
certification, industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and
effective AI use in clinical care?
HBMA believes there must be a process for validating AI tools in a way that differentiates useful
AI tools from inadequate or flawed products. We caution HHS (or any federal agency) against
declaring itself as an authority on accrediting, approving or certifying AI tools for use in clinical
care.
Many organizations are seeking to assert themselves as an AI authority. HHS partners with
outside organizations to implement policies such as selecting CAQH CORE to develop operating
rules for HIPAA transactions and relying on contractors for quality measure development. We
caution against relying on outside vendors to serve as AI certification entities. Past experience
with how EHRs were certified by both government and non-government entities despite many
flaws with these products suggests a more cautious and deliberate approach is needed. HHS
should not rely on an organization to serve as an AI accreditor or certifier until HHS first
establishes a clear policy for how AI should be used in clinical care.

At this time, we feel the best role for government is to establish minimum standards as a
guidance to industry on which AI tools are appropriate for clinical care. Clinicians and RCM
companies want to be compliant. However, this requires clear, concise guidance for what
regulators expect and resources to assist with compliance. For example, guidance should clarify
what data elements are acceptable for use in large language models (LLMs), or requirements for
data storage and retention. Additionally, guidance must be well organized and indexed in a
standardized fashion so that they are easily searchable and clearly display updates.
Additionally, HHS should leverage the Medicare reimbursement system to decide which tools it
will or will not cover or reimburse. By choosing to reimburse for an item or service that utilizes
AI, HHS can control which tools are used in clinical care. We caution HHS against requiring
clinicians to document use of AI as that would add more layers to an already burdensome
process.
AI is already helping to revolutionize the healthcare RCM industry. The RCM industry is filled
with avoidable administrative burdens – barriers that are largely constructed by payers. Processes
such as prior authorizations, supplemental documentation requests, denials and appeals, and lack
of interoperability make the back-office functions of our healthcare system are more difficult
than they need to be. The role of the RCM industry is to absorb these challenges on behalf of
medical practices so that clinicians can focus their time and resources on caring for patients
instead of administrative requirements.
The RCM industry is now incorporating automation and certain types of AI into our workflows
by necessity as a response to these challenges.
Clinician burnout is one of the top health policy priorities for both Congress and regulators. We
believe that HHS should approach AI from the perspective of reducing burdens to ease burnout.
Many clinicians are choosing to leave the clinical workforce over these burdens. AI tools have
the potential to either increase or decrease these burdens. We believe government guidance and
regulations must maintain a focus on reducing burnout and must be responsive to concerns from
clinicians about how AI could potentially increase burdens.
Question 7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care
organizations have the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the
primary administrative hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
Revenue cycle is a major factor in decisions to adopt AI tools. Clinicians must be fairly
reimbursed for using AI tools in clinical care. The RCM industry is responsible for ensuring
clinicians are reimbursed for the services they provide. This often means navigating complex
billing and coding policies, understanding coverage policies unique to each payer, facilitating
documentation requests and managing denials and coding adjustments.
We believe HHS should build on this RFI by shifting its focus from the clinical factors to the
administrative and revenue cycle factors related to AI adoption. We suggest HHS issues

additional RFIs on these topics. We also recommend that HHS consults with stakeholder
organizations such as HBMA to discuss these issues in more detail. HHS should also consider
convening focus groups of stakeholder organizations to provide input on HHS’ AI policies.
HHS must maintain separation between adoption of AI and quality programs such as MIPS.
HHS should not hold clinicians financially accountable for using or not using AI. While AI
certainly has potential to improve care quality and efficiency – both of which are the primary
goals for HHS value-based payment programs – it is essential that AI adoption remains separated
from these programs in these early days of AI development. We support policies that incentivize
using AI under conditions described throughout this response. However, we believe such policies
should not be included in value-based payment programs, which already create significant
financial and administrative burdens for clinicians with minimal potential rewards to return the
investment necessary to successfully participate in these programs. .
Question 8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel
research, and accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific
data types, data standards, and benchmarking tools.
HBMA supports interoperability but is frustrated that it still does not exist. While improvements
have been made, many EHR systems are still not interoperable. In some cases, products are not
interoperable with other products from the same vendor. New policies that leverage standard
APIs have promise to greatly improve interoperability. However, widespread API adoption will
be needed to achieve these goals. We believe AI could help address this issue by serving as an
intermediary to ensure that health data is interoperable across EHR platforms.
Importantly, these same interoperability concerns apply to AI products used in clinical care. AI
has great potential to connect products, clinicians and other technology into a cohesive care
delivery platform. We encourage HHS to emphasize interoperability in any policy that promotes
the use of AI tools in clinical care.
Question 9. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see
addressed by the adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do
patients and caregivers have related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical care?
From the perspective of the RCM company, patients are frustrated with many aspects of the
healthcare system. These “pain points” include confusion over medical bills, misunderstanding
of their plan’s benefits and provider network, frustration over health insurance coverage
decisions such as preauthorization care delays and coverage denials, and lack of price
transparency, among other things.

We believe AI can improve the consumer experience for patients by addressing many of these
issues. For example, AI tools can help patients better understand their health insurance and
coverage decisions, as well as make price transparency data easier to provide and interpret.
However, patients typically prefer to interact with a human rather than a bot. Perhaps agentic AI
will improve to a point where this dynamic changes. However, that is not the current reality. It is
therefore important to provide transparency to patients if they are dealing with an AI or bot
instead of a human.
Studies show patients are skeptical of how is used in clinical care. Patients continue to strongly
trust their physicians. Clinicians must be careful to balance AI’s potential to improve clinical
care with patient’s mistrust of these tools.
Providing transparency around how AI tools are developed, tested, and protected against bias are
essential to building trust in these tools among both patients and clinicians. We are concerned
that AI models could be trained on flawed data sources. For example, many EHRs contain
outdated, redundant and inaccurate information. AI tools that are trained on EHR data could
result in flawed end-use products.
Care quality and safety must always be a higher priority than any potential efficiencies gained by
AI tools. Further, AI cannot and should not ever replace a clinician. There are many interesting
use cases in specialties such as radiology and mental health. However, AI tools are intended to
support the clinician, not replace them.
With high demand for health care and shortages of clinicians in many areas, AI can make care
more efficient both clinically and administratively.
Conclusion
Thank you for your consideration of our comments, especially those that urge ASTP/ONC to
consider how the RCM industry will play an important role regarding how AI is incorporated
into clinical care. Please do not hesitate to contact HBMA Director of Government Relations
Matt Reiter (reiterm@capitolassociates.com) or HBMA Executive Director Brad Lund
(brad@hbma.org) if you wish to discuss our recommendations in more detail.
Sincerely,
Landon Tooke, JD, MLS, CHC, CCEP, CHBME
President, HBMA