Subject: Comments on Request for Information; Health Technology
Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
These comments are submitted in response to the RFI concerning the Health Technology
Ecosystem, with a focus on the creation of a consolidated national provider directory.
RFI:https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/05/16/2025-08701/request-for-information-
health-technology-ecosystem
CareSet works to improve the quality and capacity of the U.S. healthcare system while
eliminating waste and abuse. We partner with life science organizations to help them allocate
resources, close care gaps, and distribute information and medicine more effectively. At the
same time, we support investigative journalism by conducting deep pattern analyses that
expose systemic issues and by liberating healthcare data.
When working with life sciences companies to map provider networks, care pathways, and
pinpoint where investment is most critical, gaps and deficiencies in the data made available by
CMS and HHS can prevent the market from accurately or properly directing resources.
Similarly, when supporting journalists, such as in our collaboration with ProPublica investigating
the overuse of atherectomies by certain physicians
(https://www.propublica.org/article/how-propublica-careset-investigated-vascular-procedure-over
use), we are regularly hampered by poor data availability, inconsistency, and a lack of
adherence to basic data correctness standards.
We envision a system of information dissemination that will increase system efficiency and help
ensure the US healthcare network of networks can withstand disruptions, allowing FEMA and
other disaster preparedness groups to quickly repair and restore its capabilities. However, our
collective ability to address complex and specific questions is limited by inaccurate data.
B. Patients and Caregivers
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and
easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers?
● Holistic Quality Scoring and Open Sourcing: A significant need exists for a holistic
provider quality score that sits above individual health plans. Many beneficiaries do not
have a pre-selected doctor and need a reliable way to choose one, but Medicare
Advantage plans each have different methods for scoring providers, or feature a few
patient ratings. A standardized quality score would solve a major need for beneficiaries.
We acknowledge that AMA, JACO, NQF, and many other groups have invested
extensively in this area, and a coordinated approach is possible. Whichever path CMS
chooses, the underlying requirement should be that SAS code be published and open
sourced for public review and iteration.

● Patient-Familiar Branding: Any provider directory effort should present information
using names that are familiar to patients, such as "Mayo Clinic," rather than complex
corporate legal names. The system should resolve the complicated underlying
organizational structures to present a simple, recognizable brand to the end-user, as
non-reading and non-English speaking individuals can recognize logos and brands.
There is a FHIR standard for brands, which should be adopted for this.
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or
their caregivers?
● Essential Data for a Provider Directory: To be useful for patients, a provider directory
needs to include key data attributes. This includes:
○ An identifier for the provider, such as their NPI number.
○ Identifiers for the organizations they participate with to show affiliations.
○ Digital contact addresses (email, phone, direct address) to enable automation
and communication.
■ Note: A difficult challenge is when the provider has multiple EHR/EMR
systems, across their affiliations. A national directory can make clear
which Direct Address is associated with each “location” where the
provider works. This makes it most likely that the medical records can
more easily flow beside and along the patient’s journey.
○ The dates and times a provider is available at a specific location, as this can be
limited and is often not clear to patients.
○ The provider’s accepted insurance contracts/plans/programs.
○ Languages spoken by providers.
○ Accessibility of provider locations.
○ Provider credentials as issued by the state, along with renewal and expiration
data.
■ Note: This can be achieved in a coordinated, federated model,
eliminating the need for double/multiple entry. All states would be required
to produce credentialing data in a machine-readable format.
○ Provider address
■ Note: Provider addresses are a difficult and unstable data point. The post
office changes ZIP codes, which people incorrectly use as identifiers, and
providers move, making addresses require special attention from a data
quality perspective.
● Timeliness of data in Directory: Consider requiring providers to renew the information
in the Provider Directory, perhaps annually, giving the clinic a window of time and
responsibility to review and confirm their addresses, credentials, direct addresses, etc.
There should be financial penalties for not updating their information in a timely manner,
and extended inaction should result in the inability to bill Medicare. See more re Legal
Entity below.
● Adhere to the Data Quality Act: For PECOS, we are spending millions of dollars in site
visits, and audit activity, however these updates do not propagate to NPPES. This
contradiction can end and dramatically upgrade the value of the existing NPPES data.

CMS needs to ensure that the data in its systems is accurate, and should be confirming
which data for providers is correct, and making it uniform across all systems.
● Open by default: Data elements submitted by and about providers should be provided
in open data or available through FOIA, unless it falls under a FOIA exemption. Two
scenarios are currently problematic with NPPES, which we encourage CMS to consider
how to prevent as they design a new directory:
○ When NPPES was created, regulations specified what data would be made
available to the public, and what was considered private. However, the system
ended up containing more elements than were originally listed. Administrators of
NPPES later deemed elements not contained in the original list to be “private”
and unavailable to the public, even though they did not meet any FOIA
exemption requirements.
○ EINs were on the list of elements to be made public, but due to inadequate data
validation, a small number of SSNs were successfully submitted by providers.
Instead of fixing the data validation problem, or figuring out a way to later release
the EIN data, it became blanket-unavailable in 2008, and the issue has still not
been resolved.
C. Providers
PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality,
timely, and comprehensive healthcare data available?
● Assign Responsibility to a Legal Entity: The obligation to provide and maintain
information on interoperability endpoints should reside with the "legal entity" (e.g., the
practice group, medical office, health system) and not the individual licensed practitioner.
The legal entity establishes contracts with EHR/EMR vendors for these services and is
the root of payor relationships. This is a significant challenge, as the owner of the data
(e.g., IPA, MSO, DSO) is often impossible to identify, which creates management
conflicts. CMS can create a framework for assigning the accountability for the
“stewardship” of provider data. Instead of the physician, CMS should lever penalties for
inaccurate data against this legal entity. This places the responsibility to maintain
accuracy on the provider and put accountability on the contracting organization,
designed to manage administrative risks.
● Investigate Data Change Triggers: A process should be undertaken to investigate the
"trigger events" that cause changes in provider data. Understanding the velocity of
change for different data components is key to maintaining accuracy. For example, a
doctor leaving or joining a practice is an event that is often known months in advance,
and can trigger a review of provider data. This is another example where these changes
are reflected in PECOS in a more timely manner, but need to be propagated into a new
provider directory, and/or NPPES.
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks

TD-1. What short term and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate developer
interest?
● Leverage Existing Data Assets: To avoid reinventing the wheel, the work done on the
“HHS Protect” program during the COVID-19 pandemic should be reused. That program
worked for months to solve the exact problem of mastering facility-to-health-system
relationships. That data was important because there is no database - CDC, HHS,
NPPES, PECOS that shows the presence of ICUs in facilities. That department
association, along with the system-level mapping was a feat accomplished in the
spring/summer of 2020. That work should be brought back and provided publicly. This
data needs to be created and maintained in advance of the next public health
emergency.
● Make source code and data open by default
○ For example, The SAS algorithms used on Medicare data to calculate the HCC
performance measures should be published. (And be implemented in languages
other than SAS as well.)
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information?
● A nationwide provider directory is a foundational need. The central debate for its
architecture is whether to implement a "single source of truth" model or a "delegated"
model.
○ Single Source of Truth: This approach would feature a single, centralized
system where data is created, retrieved, updated, and deleted (CRUD). A
patient/caregiver/administrator goes to get the final, authoritative answer about a
provider. Proponents argue this is necessary to prevent having thousands of
different versions of the data.
○ Federated Model: This approach would function like the internet's Domain Name
System (DNS). There would be root servers that route requests to subsequently
more specific servers (e.g., a .com server, then a website.com server) until the
answer is resolved by the authoritative source. Similarly, a Delegated approach
would serve data through trusted national networks. This is what DirectTrust uses
for direct addresses. In either case, all storage and transmission of data would
need to be machine readable on the same data schema/standard. Here, the
Create, Update, and Delete functions can be localized to state government or
enterprise stakeholders, and the Retrieve function can be democratized widely
through portals, websites, etc.
○ CareSet suggests, like NPPES and PECOS, a single source of truth is most
efficient, most likely to produce standardized outputs, and will eliminate the need
for redundant systems to be built in the private and public sectors, making the
service available sooner. Taking a delegated/federated alternative would result in
a phased approach, at best, and would create a leader/lagger phenomenon for
years, similar to the experience of launching Meaningful Use.

■ If CMS chooses to pursue a federated model, there is a critical need for
well-defined technical specifications for APIs to ensure all sources of truth
can work with each other. This includes shared, well-defined vocabularies
and value sets for items like role codes and organization types so that
data mapping is not required.
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are its
limitations?
● Inadequate and Incomplete Provider Taxonomies: The current NUCC taxonomy
system is considered inadequate and untrustworthy. A new directory must:
○ Include all providers, such as dentists and behavioral health specialists, and
clearly define what a "provider" is. The directory must be complete across all
geographies and lines of business.
○ Establish a hierarchy to correlate mid-level practitioners (NPs, PAs) who function
as PCPs but may roll up to an MD or DO, as some carriers only recognize the
MD's NPI.
○ The taxonomy description must be oriented around the types of patients and
complaints a practitioner sees and treats, because “Specialist” and “Student” are
not helpful.
○ By beginning with NPPES, and extending it as above, the new system could
become a universal standard, and replace the alternative and competing
taxonomy system used by CMS in Medicare claims data. (link:
https://resdac.org/cms-data/variables/line-cms-provider-specialty-code).
○ Finally, CMS should prevent individual providers billing as organizations, and
organizations billing as individual providers.
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what criteria
or metrics should CMS consider?
● Partnership with National Networks: A partnership between CMS and trusted national
networks, such as DirectTrust, should be considered as a source of truth for certain data
elements. For example, the problem of managing multiple direct addresses for clinicians
and organizations has already been solved by DirectTrust. Leveraging these existing
networks for such "second order problems" would be an efficient architectural approach.
We appreciate the opportunity to comment on these matters, and CMS’s efforts to improve the
data ecosystem for patients and providers.
Regards,
CareSet