February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Mary E. Switzer Building
Mail Stop: 7033A
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
Dear Dr. Keane,
On behalf of the over 93,000 members of the American College of Surgeons (ACS), we
appreciate the opportunity to submit comments to the Department of Health and Human Services’
(HHS) Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI)
as Part of Clinical Care (HHS Health Sector AI RFI) published in the Federal Register on
December 23, 2025. The ACS is a scientific and educational association of surgeons founded in
1913 to improve the quality of care for the surgical patient by setting high standards for surgical
education and practice. The ACS is dedicated to setting the highest standards of care in an
optimal and ethical practice environment— and recognizes the transformative potential of
advanced technologies in achieving these goals.
The ACS commends HHS for seeking information from the clinical community and other
stakeholders to better understand how it can facilitate the acceleration of adoption and use of AI
in clinical care. The ACS has been supportive of HHS’ efforts to advance the digital ecosystem
and AI in clinical care, recognizing that there are clear opportunities to leverage the capabilities
of AI for better, more efficient, and affordable healthcare delivery. However, there is also
significant risk in implementing AI without clear guardrails and standards for responsible and
ethical use, patient safety, transparency, and continuous evaluation and monitoring. Today,
structural barriers that delay deployment of validated clinical AI tools also still exist within the
digital ecosystem where control sits with electronic health record (EHR) vendors. These barriers
can be addressed through promotion of an open, standards-based deployment infrastructure that
enables safe, rapid integration of clinically-validated AI tools that empower the clinical
community. To fully realize the positive impacts of the integration of AI into clinical care, the
Agency must work closely with technical and clinical experts, as well as create a strategic
direction that is nimble enough to keep pace with the rapid evolution of digital health
technologies. There also must always be a focus on the impact to patient care and outcomes; these
1

monumental advancements in healthcare delivery must be for the betterment of patient care and should not detract
from the patient experience.
ACS supports HHS’s efforts to responsibly accelerate AI adoption in clinical care. While AI holds considerable
promise to improve patient outcomes and care delivery, its implementation must be guided by clear guardrails to
ensure patient safety, ethical use, transparency, and continuous evaluation. Structural barriers within the digital
health ecosystem, particularly those related to EHR integration, continue to delay deployment of validated AI
tools. Promoting an open, standards-based infrastructure would enable safe and efficient integration of clinically
validated technologies that support clinical decision-making. To fully realize AI’s potential, HHS must
collaborate closely with clinical and technical experts and establish a strategic framework that remains adaptable
to rapid technological advancement. Above all, AI policy must remain grounded in its impact on patient care and
outcomes, ensuring that these innovations enhance, rather than detract from, the patient experience.
Procedural AI versus Cognitive AI: A Critical Distinction
As HHS develops regulatory, research, and reimbursement frameworks, the College urges HHS to recognize the
fundamental differences between two categories of AI in clinical care: procedural AI and cognitive AI. Procedural
AI refers to systems integrated into surgical tools that directly support, guide, or automate elements of operations,
often involving robotics or specialized hardware, with the AI component embedded in the device used during the
intervention itself. In contrast, cognitive AI consists of software-based systems that analyze data to inform
diagnosis and decision-making, providing analytical support but not directly controlling or operating surgical
devices during the procedure.
From a surgical perspective, this distinction is critical for policy development. When AI is embedded into tools
used intraoperatively, surgeons face unique challenges that distinguish procedural AI from other AI applications.
When using cognitive AI outside of the operating room (OR), clinicians can pause to consider additional data,
consult colleagues, or seek second opinions when uncertain about or in disagreement with AI recommendations.
However, surgeons using procedural AI cannot scrub out of surgery to deliberate when they disagree with AI.
They must make real-time—often life-saving decisions—while also considering whether to rely on
recommendations from AI-enabled devices during active procedures. This creates a fundamentally different risk
profile and decision-making environment. This unique surgical perspective underscores why procedural AI
requires regulatory frameworks that account for the time-sensitive, high-stakes nature of intraoperative AI use.
Because of these fundamental differences, a one-size-fits-all approach to AI regulation is inappropriate. For
example, procedural AI requires unique post-market evaluation frameworks that account for device malfunction
versus user error, which differs significantly from cognitive AI evaluation methods that typically compare
outcomes with and without the tool. Procedural AI also requires regulatory efforts focused on transparent device
malfunction reporting, clear recall mechanisms, oversight of post-deployment software updates, and appropriate
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) labeling that addresses surgery-specific warnings and limitations.
Developing effective procedural AI policy necessitates direct collaboration with surgeons and proceduralists who
understand these nuances. It is through this lens that the ACS offers our recommendations and comments below.
2

Key Considerations for Surgery:
The following points represent important topics for the ACS related to regulation; ethics, safety, and transparency;
liability; surgeon experts; and reimbursement for AI-enabled tools. We are eager to serve as a resource to HHS as
it explores these and other critical areas surrounding AI-enabled tools in surgical practice:
• Regulation of Procedure-based AI Tools
The rapid advancement of AI in healthcare has made it difficult for federal agencies to create regulatory
frameworks around these technologies. Regulatory strategies should account for the differences across AI
categories and use cases, specifically between cognitive applications and AI embedded in procedural
technologies. This is critical not only for patient safety but also for the collection of reliable real-world
data.
For example, in cases of procedural AI, effective post-market surveillance requires mechanisms that
promote transparent reporting of device malfunctions and adverse events, through confidential, anonymized
hospital incident reporting systems without penalizing clinicians who use these technologies appropriately.
A confidential reporting process is essential to ensuring patient safety, supporting continuous improvement
in device design and performance, enhancing the integrity and accuracy of post-market surveillance data,
and building trust in these tools and their use in clinical practice. Clear mechanisms for initiating review,
recall, or corrective action for AI-enabled tools are also critically important.
Furthermore, FDA labeling for AI/machine learning (ML)-enabled surgical devices warrants careful
attention. Required warnings and limitations should clearly describe intended use, known performance
constraints, populations in which performance has not been validated, and relevant intraoperative safety
considerations. Clear labeling supports informed decision-making by hospitals and surgeons and
promotes appropriate clinical use. Maintaining the required warnings and limitations portion of the
official FDA-labeling for AI/ML-enabled medical devices is also crucial. Example surgical warnings
could include information about the tool misidentifying structures, performance being reduced or untested
in certain populations, whether or not the device has been evaluated for robotic surgery, whether the tool
ensures achievement of the critical view of safety, and more. Appropriate labeling is critical for vendors,
hospitals, and physicians to have discussions about the risks of such tools.
Finally, regulatory frameworks must extend beyond the initial instance of the AI-enabled tools to also
address ongoing software updates and adaptive algorithmic modifications that may alter device behavior
post-deployment.
Ultimately, the goal of regulatory bodies should be to determine that the AI-based tools are used
responsibly and are trustworthy and safe for patient care. Supporting longitudinal tracking of patient
outcomes across sites will also be essential for post-market surveillance and AI performance monitoring,
which will require mechanisms that give patients verifiable control over their health data as they move
across care settings. To achieve this, public-private partnerships that can create a collaborative
environment across the technology industry, clinical community, and policy makers are necessary. There
must also be a regulatory framework that can quickly transform to keep pace with rapid advancements in
the industry. HHS has an opportunity to show strong leadership in this area and would benefit from
3

creating a standalone entity tasked with convening and coordinating this collaboration with goals of
properly governed, trusted knowledge management.
• Ethical, Safe, and Transparent Use of AI:
Ensuring ethical, safe, and transparent evaluation and use of AI-enabled tools is foundational to their
uptake in surgical care, yet there is a lack of structure around these important criteria.1 The current
environment where transparency requirements are not clearly defined places an enormous burden on
surgeons who are expected to rely on AI to minimize errors and advance care yet currently bear
responsibility for determining when to defer to or to override AI.2 Surgeons need assurance that AI tools
are up-to-date, have been rigorously evaluated and validated, and are safe for use within their clinical
environment and patient population. Without requirements for transparency around model development,
testing, debugging and performance, there is an increased risk of inaccuracy of AI outputs and/or
inadvertently perpetuating or exacerbating health disparities. For example, it is important that the system
account for a circumstance where an AI-based tool might be used to help a physician diagnose and offer
treatment pathways for a patient, but the AI was trained on data taken from a demographic that does not
match the patient. Because the AI has never interacted with data that are reflective of the patient, there is
significant risk of inappropriate/misdiagnosis and inaccurate treatment recommendations.3 Further, the
lack of clear requirements and guidance around transparency and the “black box” nature of the decision-
making process of an algorithm makes identifying the potential for these errors extremely difficult for the
physician community—especially in instances in surgery where an irreversible, real-time decision must
be made intraoperatively. Recently, regulatory bodies have stated that sharing detailed, transparent data
around AI algorithms is not useful for clinicians due to the technical nature of the information;4 however,
we disagree with this assumption. Physicians and healthcare systems must continue to be exposed to and
learn to best utilize these data as the uptake of AI-based tools in healthcare becomes inevitable.
We believe that good regulation of these technologies must also consider the level of transparency needed
for surgical patients. Transparency to patients includes considerations such as when it is appropriate to
disclose when AI is used in their care and how to have conversations with patients. Patients’ perception of
AI use in their surgical care varies and can significantly impact their trust in the surgical process.
Ensuring patients are comfortable will require effective communication about the contributions of AI, its
performance, the privacy and security of their data, and ultimately having the ability to decline the use of
AI in their care.3 These examples demonstrate the complex and diverse needs around transparency.
Creating a solution that meets the existing and future needs of surgeons and surgical patients will require
collaboration and alignment of AI developers, physicians, patients, health systems, policy makers, and
more.
The ACS advocates for a trustworthy system, facilitated by the federal government or certified
accrediting bodies (or a collaboration of the two), that can ensure AI tools intended for use in
clinical care meet technical and clinical care standards of ethical and responsible use, safety, and
1 Angus DC, Khera R, Lieu T, et al. AI, Health, and Health Care Today and Tomorrow: The JAMA Summit Report on
Artificial Intelligence. JAMA. 2025;334(18):1650-1664.
2 Patil SV, Myers CG, Lu-Myers Y. Calibrating AI Reliance – A Physician’s Superhuman Dilemma. JAMA Health Forum.
2025;6(3):e250106.
3 Adegbesan A, Akingbola A, Aremu O, Adewole O, Amamdikwa JC, Shagaya U. From Scalpels to Algorithms: The Risk of
Dependence on Artificial Intelligence in Surgery. J Med Surg Public Health. 2024; 3:100140.
4 90 FR 60970
4

transparency, immediately and over long-term implementation. An example of a federal oversight
infrastructure for health information technology (IT) is the Assistant Secretary for Technology
Policy (ASTP)/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC)
Health IT Certification Program. To be effective, a transparent certification system should include the
following elements, which present areas for opportunity for investment and further development:
• Technical performance standards for AI applied across its lifecycle – For AI used in surgical
care, such as augmented reality and robotic-assisted surgery, the standards should be specific to
the type of tool and could include metrics such as failure to detect proper anatomy, time
measurements, technical reliability, accurate registration of images, etc.5
• Clinical metrics tied to the use of AI – In surgical care this might include clinical outcomes,
such as intraoperative complication rates, patient experience, and patient-reported outcomes.
However, this could also include metrics around workflow optimization or detection of
intraoperative errors, such as frequency of operating in an anatomical “danger zone.”6
• Guidelines for the proper human touchpoints – This enables collaboration between the
surgeon and the AI tool across the full episode of care, preserving surgeon autonomy and
ensuring surgical judgement is exercised not only at the point of intervention but throughout the
patient’s surgical journey, from preoperative planning through postoperative recovery. It is
crucial to identify where the surgeon-in-the-loop should be properly applied, which can vary
based on use case.
• Transparent information for end users – Requirements must outline what data must be made
available to end users to ensure they are informed about the tools and can effectively
communicate with patients. An example of this could look like AI Model Cards,7 where detailed,
transparent information about an AI model’s purpose, design, capabilities/limitations, etc., is
shared with end users.
• The Impact of Regulation on Liability
Liability related to the use of AI in medicine remains unsettled and continues to evolve. Under existing
malpractice law, surgeons are evaluated under the medical standard of care and will typically not be
found liable if injury occurs following the standard of care. Surgeons are therefore incentivized to follow
this standard no matter what an AI tool might suggest.8 As this standard develops over time through the
interaction of federal oversight, development of clinical or practice guidelines, payment policy, and
patterns of clinical adoption, how HHS approaches AI regulation and program guidance will likely
influence how courts assess surgeon conduct in future professional liability actions.
Regulation should also play a critical role in how causation and responsibility are allocated between
providers and developers. Many AI systems, particularly those using opaque or “black box”
methodologies, do not make their reasoning transparent to the end user. Dataset bias, performance drift,
5 Kos TM, Colombo E, Bartels LW, Robe PA, van Doormaal TPC. Evaluation Metrics for Augmented Reality in
Neurosurgical Preoperative Planning, Surgical Navigation, and Surgical Treatment Guidance: A Systematic Review. Oper
Neurosurg. 2024;26(5):491-501.
6 Mascagni P, Alapatt D, Urade T, et al. A Computer Vision Platform to Automatically Locate Critical Events in Surgical
Videos: Documenting Safety in Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy. Ann Surg. 2021;274(1):e93-e95.
7 Coalition for Health AI. Applied Model Card. Accessed February 17, 2026. https://www.chai.org/workgroup/applied-
model/model-card-and-registry
8 Price WN, Gerke S, Cohen IG. Liability for Use of Artificial Intelligence in Medicine. In: Solaiman B, Cohen IG, eds.
Research Handbook on Health, AI and the Law. Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd; 2022.
5

and model degradation are often not visible to end users, and surgeons generally are not in the best
position to independently validate AI outputs in real time. Without clear guardrails or liability protections
for the provider, these characteristics risk misalignment in liability allocation, with responsibility falling
on clinicians even when adverse outcomes stem from system design, data limitations, or integration
decisions. Thoughtful regulatory oversight can mitigate these risks and more appropriately align them
with existing frameworks such as those for medical device product liability.
In addition, the integration of AI into surgical care raises important questions regarding informed consent.
As AI-enabled tools increasingly influence operative planning or execution, patients may reasonably
expect to understand when such technologies are being used and the role they play in their care. However,
surgeons cannot be expected to disclose technical details regarding algorithm development, training data,
or system architecture that are beyond their knowledge or control. Federal guidance clarifying appropriate
disclosure standards for AI-enabled surgical tools would help align informed consent obligations with
realistic clinical practice, ensuring patients receive meaningful information without imposing
impracticable burdens on individual clinicians.
Distinct Considerations for Procedural AI Liability
Unlike cognitive or clinical decision support (CDS) tools, which provide recommendations to inform
professional judgment, procedural AI systems directly influence or participate in the execution of surgical
care. When a procedural AI system contributes to tissue injury or affects surgical mechanics, causation
may appear directly attributable to the surgeons’ actions, specifically, whether intervention was feasible
and whether a reasonably prudent surgeon could have acted differently. When a procedural AI system
operates within its labeled indications, executes functions as designed, and produces outputs or actions
based on embedded algorithms that the surgeon cannot meaningfully test or recalibrate in real time,
responsibility should not default to the surgeon solely because an adverse event occurred in the OR.
Concerns around liability are further heightened where procedural AI systems are classified or treated
similarly to advisory CDS tools and thereby avoid robust premarket evaluation or ongoing oversight by
the FDA. In other words, these non-device tools may be framed in litigation as clinical aids rather than as
independently accountable medical devices. In such circumstances, developers and institutions may face
limited accountability, while liability risk shifts downstream to surgeons who did not design, train, or
update the system and may have limited ability to evaluate its internal functioning. Even in cases where
surgeons have algorithmic transparency, this access alone should not automatically invoke liability.
The ACS urges HHS to recognize procedural AI as distinct from advisory CDS tools and to align
oversight and liability principles more closely with established medical device regulatory and products
liability frameworks.
First, procedural AI warrants stronger upstream oversight. Because these systems can directly cause
physical harm and may involve data- or design-driven error modes that surgeons cannot always override
in real time, federal review and oversight frameworks should reflect their heightened risk profile. Clear
labeling, defined user responsibilities, and meaningful post-market performance monitoring are essential
to protect patients and ensure appropriate accountability.
Second, liability should track meaningful control. Surgeons should not bear responsibility for harms
arising from procedural AI behaviors that were not reasonably foreseeable or preventable through
6

ordinary surgical vigilance. Responsibility should align with control, knowledge, and the practical ability
to intervene, not merely with the surgeon’s presence in the OR.
Third, HHS should consider mechanisms to protect compliant use. Surgeons who use AI systems in
accordance with FDA-labeled indications, exercise independent clinical judgment, and document
reasonable reliance on, or departure from, AI outputs should not face disproportionate liability exposure.
While use of an FDA-authorized product consistent with its labeled indications does not provide absolute
immunity from malpractice claims, it may serve as evidence that the provider adhered to established,
evidence-based standards of care. Federal guidance supporting compliant use would promote patient
safety while encouraging responsible innovation. Clear, coordinated federal policy in this area will help
ensure that liability principles support, rather than hinder, the safe and effective integration of AI into
surgical practice.
• Leveraging Surgeon Experts
The ACS requests that HHS build pathways for collaboration with surgeons and specialty societies;
when AI is developed for use in surgical practice, engagement of the surgical community must be
the rule, not the exception. To ensure the safety, efficacy, and appropriateness of surgical AI tools,
surgeons must be involved from the beginning of the research and development lifecycle to
implementation, and through evaluation of ongoing performance of AI. Only surgeons can determine if
the AI tool achieves the intended clinical outcome of a procedure—especially when considering
procedural AI. Therefore, surgical specialty societies should define the goals of care for a surgical AI tool
and ultimately determine if those goals are being met. It is also important to note that in today’s
environment, the technology, alone, is no longer the main barrier to realizing the potential of surgical AI
tools. Instead, current hurdles include issues with implementation, change management, administrative
buy-in, and more, making the perspective of practicing clinicians, such as surgeons, essential.
Developing and maintaining partnerships with the surgical community will help to ensure AI-based tools
and all supporting data are high quality, safe, and appropriate for clinical use. The ACS has extensive
experience leveraging clinical data for improved healthcare through its clinical data registries and can
offer validated, high-quality data for research and development activities. With its distinguished
membership, broad surgical expertise, and network of specialized committees, the ACS is ideally
positioned to partner with HHS in advancing AI-enabled tools for surgical care. The ACS looks forward
to future opportunities to partner with the HHS on this important work.
• Reimbursement
A primary challenge to appropriate reimbursement is the absence of clear coding pathways for AI-enabled
tools used by physicians, as many applications do not align with existing Current Procedural Terminology
(CPT) or Health Care Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) codes. The ACS urges HHS to
support the development of coding pathways that recognize physician-directed use of AI, with
reimbursement reflecting surgeon oversight as necessary rather than payment for software use alone,
when appropriate.
Revaluation of existing surgical services presents an additional concern, as AI adoption may be assumed
to reduce physician work, resulting in inappropriate downward pressure on reimbursement. In practice, AI
often shifts or increases physician work, as surgeons must oversee the integration, validation, and safe use
7

of AI-enabled procedural technologies throughout the surgical episode of care. The ACS therefore
recommends that HHS require robust empirical evidence and meaningful clinician input before using AI
adoption as justification for revaluing surgical services and consider new models for reimbursing
physicians for the increased work associated with the use of new technology. Depending on decisions
made on the issue of professional liability, this could also warrant methodological changes to valuing
professional liability insurance relative value units (PLI RVUs).
To address delays inherent in legacy payment systems, the ACS further encourages HHS to consider
time-limited, evidence-generating coverage pathways for AI tools with strong preliminary evidence of
clinical benefit, allowing conditional reimbursement while requiring ongoing data collection prior to
permanent coverage and payment decisions.
The ACS appreciates the opportunity to comment on these important issues, and we look forward to
continuing dialogue with HHS on issues impacting AI/ML in surgical care. Please contact Vinita
Mujumdar, Chief of Regulatory Affairs, at vmujumdar@facs.org, or Jill Sage, Chief of Quality Affairs, at
jsage@facs.org, with any questions.
Sincerely,
Patricia L. Turner, MD, MBA, FACS
Executive Director and CEO
8