June 16, 2025
Stephanie Carlton
Deputy Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Steven Posnack
Acting Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Acting National Coordinator for Health IT
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Re: CMS-0042-NC; Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Deputy Administrator Carlton and Acting Assistant Secretary Posnack:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments in response to the Request for Information (RFI)
on the Health Technology Ecosystem.
Enable Health is a healthcare consulting company focused on improving quality, efficiency, and
financial results for accountable care organizations (ACOs) utilizing strategic alignments with
healthcare technology companies. As CEO of Enable Health, I have more than thirty-five years of
healthcare management experience with hospitals, payors, and accountable care organizations.
Before starting Enable Health, I spent a decade helping build, manage, and lead Triad HealthCare
Network (THN) the accountable care organization associated with Cone Health in Greensboro, North
Carolina. THN participated in CMS’s Next Generation ACO Program from 2016 until 2022 and was
one of the top performing ACO’s nationally in terms of shared savings and quality performance.
THN’s success can be attributed to multiple factors. To name a few, strong physician and
administrative leadership, a care management team including pharmacists, a robust quality and risk
coding educational team, and smart use of technology including a technology platform that provided
near real-time clinical data at the point of care. The Point of Care Report (POC) was created by the
aggregation of clinical data from more than 54 disparate EMR versions. It is through this lens and
prior experience that I offer my consulting services to other ACOs.
Throughout my career, I have searched for innovative ways to make healthcare more efficient and
better for all parties. I am still amazed that the airline and banking industries have better real-time
information than healthcare. I am happy to share the insights I’ve learned with CMS.
I applaud the administration’s focus on reducing undue burden and willingness to understand the
issues associated with the health technology ecosystem through this RFI to move our healthcare
system forward. Americans deserve a healthcare system that enables better outcomes and
experiences, better data flow and transparency, and lower costs for all.
Enable Health’s responses to specific questions of the RFI are below.

Responses to RFI Questions
1. Digital Health Adoption
VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations (ACOs)
or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital health
management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with their
patients? What are the current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption for
patients in ACOs?
Participants should receive financial incentives to utilize staff and technologies that reduce
duplication of services, lower ER visits, reduce readmissions, and improve clinical quality
outcomes. At THN, investments in the necessary staff and technology were achievable because of
a collaborative health system and savings achieved in full-risk contracts for Medicare, Medicare
Advantage, and some commercial agreements.
Additionally, the advanced APM bonus allowed us to garner the interest and involvement of our
specialists.
Newer ACOs and smaller, independent, or rural practices don’t have the resources to support
adoption of the necessary tools. CMS should find ways to offer financial support either through
infrastructure payments or interim prepayments of shared savings.
VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population health
analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement, and patient
engagement be better integrated into APM requirements?
“Every system is perfectly designed to get the results it gets,” a quote by Paul Batalden. CMS needs
to align the incentives with the results it wants to achieve. This starts with standardization of data
reporting and mapping. It took THN and KPN Health many years to build the robust data center
necessary to support the Point of Care Report due to lack of standardization of data and EMR vendors
unwilling or unable to share the necessary data. This was especially true with cloud based EMRs.
The healthcare system’s historical focus on claims data is a disservice to patients and our
healthcare spend. Artificial intelligence and risk stratification should be used on real-time clinical
data to be pro-active and preventative towards chronic disease and health care needs.
VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
To be successful in value-based care arrangements, essential health IT capabilities are accurate
and timely patient rosters, real-time clinical data inclusive of pharmacy data at the Point of Care
(THN has used KPN Health since 2012 and it is still in use today), timely claims data, real-time
discharge and ER visit data (THN used Bamboo Health), real-time data from the post-acute space,
and more frequent performance data from CMS versus quarterly or annually.

Aggregation of all the data fields listed above is required to build a highly accurate data center
capable of producing a longitudinal patient profile for the ACO. THN, working with KPN Health, was
successful in building a customized data center and highly accurate Point of Care Report that
contributed to THN’s success in becoming #1 in the nation for quality performance in the Next
Generation ACO model in 2019.
For entities taking on full-risk, it is important to have a referral management platform so that
providers know which providers are in-network and thus can manage where their patients go
better. The feedback loop of knowing whether their patients were seen is also critically important.
(THN has used Proficient Health for this service)
Additionally, providing an annual wellness visit (AWV) to as many Medicare patients as possible is
another key driver of success to better manage patients and their chronic conditions. CMS should
encourage the use of technologies like SnapAWV that are designed to automate and streamline the
annual wellness visit process.
Lastly, patients with mental health issues typically have medical costs that are twice as high as
those who do not. Utilization of companies like April Health that offer turnkey solutions to support
primary care physicians with counseling and psychiatry services through telemedicine are
increasingly important. Especially given the shortages in mental health providers.
VB-4. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value-based
care arrangements?
Essential data types are the following: clinical data, pharmacy data, claims data, ADT feeds, and
post-acute/skilled nursing facility (SNF) data. Historical costs and utilization data as well as risk
adjustment data for the population are necessary as well.
2. Compliance and Certification
VB-5. In your experience, how do current certification criteria and standards incorporated into
the ONC Health IT Certification Program support value-based care delivery?
As a member of Accountable for Health, I agree with their response to this question. To summarize,
current certification criteria and standards provide a good platform for providers to collect data but
are limited in their utility to share data in a meaningful way.
ACOs with providers on disparate systems must rely on data aggregators who work directly with
EMR vendors to build data extracts, which can cost anywhere from $5,000 to $45,000. “On top of
this cost, practices participating in the ACO must pay maintenance fees on an annual basis to keep
extracts flowing, which can be a significant hurdle for small and independent practices. ACOs also
regularly face challenges when validating the data from EHRs to ensure accuracy by validating data
against the primary source. Practices utilizing regulated FHIR APIs such as USCDI core see a

reduced, if not zero, cost for use. APIs outside of those that are regulated are charged for services,
which can be costly at scale. This underscores the importance of regulated APIs to reduce burden
to the entire ecosystem.”
VB-7. How can technology requirements for APMs, established through CEHRT or other
pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility?
I also agree with Accountable for Health on this answer. “CMS should move beyond the focus on
CEHRT. Current CEHRT requirements, combined with quality reporting requirements in MIPS and
MSSP, are burdensome and unnecessary.”
One of the greatest incentives and benefits for providers to join an Advanced Alternative Payment
Model, particularly for specialists, was that they did not have to participate in MIPS.
VB-9. What technology requirements should be different for APM organizations when
comparing to non-APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and interoperability)?
CMS should attempt to eliminate all unnecessary administrative burdens and regulations for APM
organizations. To the extent possible, CMS should offer financial incentives for innovative
technologies that improve and enhance the delivery of healthcare.
3. Technical Standards
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing
value-based care programs?
In my experience, some of the major EHR vendors and some of the cloud-based EHR vendors have
made data integration difficult.
VB-12. What technology standardization would preserve program-specific flexibility while
promoting innovation in APM technology implementation? AND VB-13. What improvements to
existing criteria and standards would better support value-based care capabilities while
reducing provider burden?
I agree with Accountable for Health’s response to this question. “Greater adoption of
interoperability standards like FHIR would bring significant benefits to healthcare by enabling
seamless, secure data exchange between disparate systems and organizations. With standardized
data formats and protocols, healthcare providers could access complete and up-to-date patient
information regardless of which EHR system is used, reducing errors and improving care
coordination. Patients would benefit from a smoother experience, as their medical history could
follow them effortlessly between doctors, specialists, and hospitals, empowering them to be more
engaged in their own care. Additionally, standardized interoperability paves the way for innovative
healthcare technologies, data analytics, and population health initiatives, ultimately leading to

better patient outcomes, increased efficiency, reduced provider burden, and lower costs across
the healthcare system.”
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access to
patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would be
necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its effectiveness?
I agree with Accountable for Health’s response to this question. “A nationwide provider directory of
FHIR endpoints would be very useful to accountable care entities. Accountable for Health
members currently spend significant time and resources mapping providers and specialties to
ensure that they are managing their patients’ care throughout their care journey. A nationwide
provider director would allow access to the right data for the right entity, at the right time; reduce
time to market; improve patient quality of care; and create an ecosystem for the next generation of
health care technology.
This ready access would enable faster and more accurate retrieval of patients’ medical histories
and insurance records, which is crucial for care coordination, transitions of care, and minimizing
duplicate tests or procedures. Additionally, clarity about where claims data resides—and how to
access it through FHIR APIs—would support more effective analytics, eligibility verification, and
value-based care initiatives.”
Conclusion
Enable Health appreciates the opportunity to provide comments on the Health Technology
Ecosystem. If you have any questions about my comments or need additional information, please
do not hesitate to contact me at Elissa.Langley@outlook.com.
Sincerely,
Elissa Langley
Chief Executive Officer
Enable Health