PC-1 (a) I would like seniors to have the ability to know when their identity is used to file a claim. The recent catheter scam, where beneficiaries were hit with copayment bills for goods and services never ordered by their physician and not needed, demonstrates the vulnerability that Medicare beneficiaries have. The reporting process for potential fraud is cumbersome and requires significant manual intervention. PC-9 (b)Blue Button Blue Button can be transformed to be a sentinel for senior to warn them about potential fraud and identity theft committed in their name. Castlestone has already designed the application to automate the Blue Button query process and use that to identify potential fraudulent claims, and provide a simple interface for seniors to confirm or deny that the claim is legitimate. PC-14 Digital Identity Castlestone has developed and deployed payment network technology to verify digital identity, verify outpatient claims and use of beneficiary and provider identities. Virtual identification cards using the digital wallet capabilities already in place. a) The challenges to get patients to sign up for digital identities in the Castlestone model are minimal. An application can be easily downloaded from a game store. Conversely, CMS can provide a web site to download an application including a virtual ID card that can be read at any standard card network terminal. b) The benefits are substantial. CMS and beneficiaries are better protected from fraud due to identity theft. Providers identities are protected from misuse and authorizing claims for patients they never saw. c) CMS can make this available today. It is built and fully functioning and requires no new hardware or software at the provider office. 
PR-10 Digital identity credentials Providers already have digital identities in the form of an NPI. Use of that identity, or any other for selected transactions should require multifactor authentication. CB-1 incentives to encourage ACOs or those participating in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) Last year’s $3 billion catheter scam was a good example of where digital technologies can protect ACOs and those participating in MSSP. There is no authentication that the physician, part of an ACO, ever ordered catheters in their office. Using mobile (virtual card) and payment network technology, multi-factor authentication will reduce or eliminate the misuse of beneficiary and provider identities. 