The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20201
Dear Secretary Kennedy,
The Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer (SITC) appreciates the opportunity to provide comment and
feedback on the Request for Information regarding Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care.
SITC is the world’s leading member-driven organization specifically dedicated to improving cancer patient
outcomes by advancing the science and application of cancer immunotherapy. SITC is a 501(c)(3) not-for-
profit medical professional society of influential research scientists, physician scientists, clinicians,
patients, patient advocates, government representatives and industry leaders dedicated to improving
cancer patient outcomes by advancing the science and application of cancer immunotherapy. Through
emphasis on high-caliber scientific meetings; dedication to education and outreach activities; focus on
initiatives of major importance in the field; and commitment to collaborations with like-minded domestic
and international organizations, government and regulatory agencies, associations and patient advocacy
groups, SITC brings together all aspects of the cancer immunology and immunotherapy community. SITC
aims to one day make the word “cure” a reality for cancer patients everywhere.
The utilization of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is an opportunity to accelerate progress across the cancer care
continuum. SITC is excited by the potential for continued implementation of AI while maintaining the
highest standards of patient safety, privacy, and scientific best practices. Based on SITC’s collective
perspective and expertise, please find comments below regarding the RFI:
Regulatory Considerations of AI Implementation
• Transparency regarding the use of large language model (LLM) AI within the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) is important to help accelerate safe adoption across healthcare. As
AI use expands into predictive and risk stratification models, imaging and pathology tools, and
generative or clinical decision-support systems, visibility into regulatory evaluation and
internal use can help set field-wide expectations. Transparency around model purpose,
performance, data validation, limitations, updating processes, real-world monitoring, and
accountability structures may strengthen trust and support responsible clinical integration.
• Continued clarity on how AI model updates over time may affect clinical trial
implementation. Clear regulatory expectations for revalidation, documentation, and post-
deployment monitoring could help maintain trial integrity and consistent performance.
Because single institutions may lack sufficient data to detect rare failures or performance

issues in underrepresented populations, collaborative, multi-institutional evaluation
frameworks could support earlier safety detection and more equitable performance
assessment.
• Clear pathways are critical for sharing AI tools that meet regulatory standards across
institutions and could help prevent siloed implementation. Shared validation approaches,
standardized performance reporting, and coordinated monitoring may improve access to safe
and effective AI-enabled care. Consortium-based models could also support more equitable
deployment across healthcare settings while enabling shared learning and continuous
performance oversight.
Research and Development Opportunities Through AI Implementation
• Increased investment in AI-driven biomarker discovery can accelerate identification of
clinically meaningful signals across multi-omic and clinical datasets and support emerging
clinical AI applications such as predictive risk models, imaging and pathology tools, and clinical
decision-support systems. Safe and effective adoption will require strong transparency
standards across model purpose, performance, validation, limitations, updating, and
accountability. Supporting collaborative, multi-institutional evaluation can further improve
detection of rare failures, ensure performance across unique populations, and promote
equitable access to AI-enabled care.
• Investment in infrastructure that allows for Bio-banking and sharing of ECQM records for
analysis in HIPAA compliant ways can accelerate and enable high-quality AI development,
validation, and real-world monitoring. Transparency across data provenance, governance, and
intended clinical use can strengthen trust and regulatory confidence. Multi-institutional data-
sharing and oversight models can improve detection of safety or performance issues and help
prevent fragmented AI implementation across healthcare systems.
SITC is excited to further assist or collaborate on this effort by discussing the above or additional topics
presented within the RFI. SITC leaders have vast expertise in immunotherapeutic drug development and
have diverse perspectives on the future of cancer care and research.
Thank you for providing an opportunity to provide comment on this important topic. Should you have any
questions, please do not hesitate to contact me at mdean@sitcancer.org. We look forward to
collaborating in the future on all efforts focused on providing cancer patients with safe and effective
treatment options.
Sincerely,
Mary Dean, JD, CAE
Executive Director
Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer