June 13, 2025
Mehmet Oz, M.D. Thomas Keane, M.D., M.B.A.
Administrator Assistant Secretary for Technology
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Policy/National Coordinator
Services U.S. Department of Health and Human
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Services 330 C St SW
200 Independence Ave SW Washington, DC 20201
Washington, DC 20201
Submitted electronically
Re: Comments on the Health Technology Ecosystem Request for Information
(RFI) [CMS-0042-NC]
Dear Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane:
The Partnership to Advance Virtual Care (PAVC) appreciates the opportunity to comment
on the market of digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and the broader health
technology infrastructure. Comprised of health systems, health IT vendors, chronic care
specialists, behavioral health providers, and primary care stakeholders that are leading
innovation in virtual care delivery, including asynchronous, virtual-first telehealth, PAVC
works to promote policies that preserve and enhance access to virtual care services for
patients and consumers, balancing appropriate utilization of telehealth services with the
need for in-person visits when warranted. The goal of all PAVC members is to provide
the best care for patients.
As healthcare providers and technology vendors, our members have seen the positive
impact of virtual services, particularly for Medicare beneficiaries. Virtual care can reach
more participants than traditional in-person programs, reduce distance and time
barriers, and increase access for people in rural areas or with limited resources. Below
please find PAVC’s feedback on a few of the questions this RFI covers.
Specifically, the RFI seeks input on how CMS and its partners can encourage providers,
including those in rural areas, to leverage approved digital health products for their
patients and what obstacles currently exist in doing so. It also asks for short- and long-
term steps CMS can take to stimulate developer interest in building digital health
products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers. PAVC appreciates these questions
and believes that it is essential to promote and incentivize the use of innovative
technologies where it will solve care and workforce gaps, and that CMS has an

important role to play in spurring investment by providing certainty in coverage and
reimbursement.
Whether care is provided through traditional telehealth visits or digital health apps,
virtual care helps address several barriers to care that keep patients from successfully
managing their chronic diseases. Medicare beneficiaries often have trouble finding
adequate transportation to go to necessary regular doctors’ visits. Even if patients can
find transportation, additional obstacles include patient wait times, taking time off work,
and long travel times, or the limitations of intermittent physician appointments (whether
in person or synchronous telehealth) to effectively help patients manage chronic
conditions like asthma, COPD, or diabetes. This problem is compounded for patients in
rural areas, who often must travel twice as far as urban residents to receive healthcare
services due to rural workforce shortages.1 Virtual care helps patients overcome these
access barriers and receive quality care in their home.
Nearly 8 in 10 adults over the age of 65 use a smartphone regularly.2 To ensure
patients can leverage innovative everyday technologies to give them access to
healthcare services, providers need stability in coverage and reimbursement. While it
has been encouraging to see several virtual care policies temporarily extended,
providers need permanency to fully invest in building the infrastructure needed to
expand virtual care access. Though some virtual care policies, such as originating site
flexibilities, are in the hands of Congress, there are several actions that CMS can take
to improve certainty for patients, providers, and investors.
Evolve and Clarify Reimbursement Policies to Further Support Virtual Care
In the calendar year (CY) 2025 Physician Fee Schedule (PFS) final rule, CMS proposed
completing a comprehensive analysis of all provisional codes currently on the Medicare
Telehealth Services List before determining which codes should be made permanent or
removed from the list. PAVC appreciates the effort to ensure that the appropriate
provisional codes are moved to the permanent list and that potential new codes are
added, and we believe that providing more clarity on the process will increase certainty
among providers.
While planning a comprehensive review, CMS should also move provisional codes that
are essential in fighting chronic disease to the permanent list. These include services
such as musculoskeletal, cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation, diabetes care, and
nutrition.
1 https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2018/12/12/how-far-americans-live-from-the-closest-hospital-
differs-by-community-type/
2 https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/fact-sheet/mobile/

CMS should also consider going beyond the current Medicare Telehealth Services List
in providing adequate reimbursement for technologies supporting seniors’ health with
asynchronous care. Care delivery can be streamlined, and patient satisfaction and
health outcomes can be improved, when beneficiaries and providers can connect live as
well as in near real-time.
CMS has the opportunity to address the chronic disease epidemic by harnessing
innovative technologies. Promoting growth in these areas will provide stability to
patients and providers alike.
Make Virtual Direct Supervision Permanent
In response to the pandemic, CMS temporarily amended the definition of “direct
supervision” to allow a supervisor to be “immediately available” by use of two-way, real-
time audio/visual technology. This flexibility has allowed physicians (and other
supervising providers) to remotely provide direct supervision when that is required by
the direct care professional’s scope of practice, as long as they are immediately
reachable and able to provide assistance through real-time audio/visual technologies. In
the CY 2025 PFS final rule, CMS made this flexibility permanent for a small subset of
services and extended the flexibility through December 31, 2025 for others. In that rule,
CMS stated that it will continue to evaluate services that can safely be provided with
remote direct supervision.
CMS should permanently allow direct supervision of services on the Medicare
Telehealth Services List using real-time audio and video telecommunications by a
physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist, in addition to a
physician. Otherwise, the advantages that telehealth has demonstrated could be
negated if the physician (or other supervising provider) is required to supervise in
person. This is particularly true in rural and underserved areas.
Streamline Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program (MDPP) Requirements
MDPP is an evidence-based behavioral intervention that aims to prevent or delay the
onset of type 2 diabetes for eligible Medicare beneficiaries diagnosed with prediabetes.
CMS has extended pandemic-era flexibilities that allow MDPP to be offered virtually
through December 31, 2027, for an MDPP program that already offers that program in a
physical location; however, virtual-only prescribers cannot participate in the program at
all. Under current regulations, only those with in-person recognition under the CDC’s
Diabetes Prevention Recognition Program (DPRP) are eligible to participate in the
MDPP. CMS should align MDPP requirements with CDC’s DPRP and allow virtual-only
providers to participate, expanding MDPP access and allowing Medicare beneficiaries
to participate in the latest, most innovative technologies.

CDC-recognized virtual DPPs are currently being offered as supplemental benefits in
Medicare Advantage by some plans and are resulting in high-quality patient outcomes.
PAVC would be pleased to provide you with additional data on these valuable virtual
programs. We are also continuing to work with Congress on such improvements to the
MDPP.
Provide Clarity Around AI-Enabled Digital Health Product Reimbursement
AI-enabled digital health products have the opportunity to improve patient health and
reduce provider administrative burden. To encourage investment and innovation of
these products, CMS should provide a clear vision around reimbursement so that
providers feel secure to invest in the upfront cost of these products.
Summary and Conclusion
Advances in virtual care have made healthcare more accessible, and data continues to
demonstrate that these advances should remain a permanent part of our healthcare
system. The Medicare population will greatly benefit from continued and improved
access to innovative technologies that reduce barriers and provide better health
outcomes.
PAVC welcomes the opportunity to discuss these important issues further, and to work
with CMS and ASTP/ONC to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries maintain access to
high-quality virtual care services.
Respectfully,
Rachel Stauffer
Executive Director
Partnership to Advance Virtual Care