Senzing Response for Response to CMS Request for Information: Health Technology Ecosystem 2. Data Access and Integration c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence? Integration of patient-centered clinical data traditionally has been a daunting, expensive and labor-intensive endeavor. Accurate, reliable data is the foundation of every successful decision, strategy and operation in today’s business landscape. Entity resolution plays a crucial role in achieving high data quality by identifying records that refer to the same entity across different sources. Without proper entity resolution, organizations face duplicated, fragmented and conflicting data, leading to costly errors, compliance risks and missed opportunities. By ensuring that all entity data is accurate, entity resolution enhances data quality, drives better insights and helps maintain the integrity of business processes, supporting informed and effective decision-making. Entity resolution is the process of determining when real-world entities are the same, despite differences in how they are described or inconsistencies in how data was entered. The data for these records has many differences, but a sophisticated Entity Resolution system can determine that it is actually the same entity. But entity resolution isn’t just beneficial for finding undiscovered matches. Entity resolution also determines when real-world entities are different despite similarities in how they are described. Utilizing modern entity resolution, organizations can now accurately identify and link entities within and across multiple data sources, despite incomplete and inconsistent data. Entity resolution can also detect relationships between resolved entities. Senzing Entity Resolution Case Study
2With more than 150 primary sources of data, Healthy Alliance – a Troy, NY based organization with a charter to improve the health of the underserved – struggled with resolving records from all these sources to get a complete, reliable view of community members. The organization wanted to better understand an individual’s social care needs, the connections made to services to resolve those needs, the services provided to the individual across multiple providers within the network, and the outcomes of those interventions. This would require matching and linking data from hundreds of partner organizations. Healthy Alliance is using the Senzing entity resolution API to quickly resolve data from many varied sources and create a complete, entity-centric view of community members. With Senzing, Healthy Alliance can now roll-up data for an individual to analyze complete human-centered social needs and the engagement process lifecycle. The organization selected Senzing entity resolution to create a master person index (MPI) using key demographic data to identify and resolve health care and other records. The Senzing API plugs into Healthy Alliance’s environment as a service and matches and links records as they are received. Senzing software allowed Healthy Alliance to quickly add the most advanced data matching capabilities to their data fabric – with no experts required – resulting in higher quality decisions and outcomes.