February 23, 2026
Department of Health and Human Services
Office of the Deputy Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC)
VIA ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION – Federal Register
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Department of Health and Human Services:
Siemens Healthineers appreciates the opportunity to discuss how the Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) can accelerate the adoption and use of artificial
intelligence (AI) as part of clinical care. For over 20 years, Siemens Healthineers
has been committed to advancing innovative AI clinical care and workflow solutions, to
increase access and improve outcomes for all patients.
We are a team of 17,000 passionate employees across more than twenty-five locations in
the United States, including R&D centers, manufacturing sites, and sales and service
operations. At Siemens Healthineers USA, we pioneer breakthroughs in healthcare for
everyone, everywhere. By bringing innovative technology to the United States market, we
enable healthcare professionals to deliver high-quality care that changes lives. Our
portfolio includes diagnostic and therapeutic imaging, radiotherapy treatment, laboratory
diagnostics, molecular medicine, digital health, and enterprise services. Our solutions are
integral to informed clinical decisions across the comprehensive healthcare landscape.
Our AI-enabled clinical applications and AI-powered solutions address major
challenges that are facing the healthcare field. Siemens Healthineers’ AI-Rad Companion
Chest Computed Tomography (CT) provides otherwise unavailable quantitative lung lesion
data which enables clinicians to make more informed clinical decisions. Additionally,
developing solutions for managing increasing workloads allows clinicians to spend more
time with patients, which helps to drive long-term success. As workloads are growing,
diagnostics and treatments are becoming more complex; experts and physicians need a
new set of tools that can handle large volumes of medical data quickly and accurately.
Siemens Healthineers has developed a portfolio of AI-powered solutions that help advance
more informed clinical decisions and automate and standardize workflows and complex
diagnostics to meet the needs of individual patients.
For further information or to connect with Siemens Healthineers, please contact Leah
Kegler (leah.kegler@siemens-healthineers.com) Head, Government Affairs, Americas.
Sincerely,

Specific Questions
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its
adoption and use in clinical care?
At the heart of Siemens Healthineers three billion patient touchpoints, is a passion
to drive better health outcomes for every patient, everywhere. We partner with
leaders across the Administration, and throughout the health care ecosystem to
improve primary care, advanced screening, and provide a multifaceted approach to
chronic care for conditions like diabetes, cancer, and heart disease. A core
component of this work is the integration of transformative innovations like artificial
intelligence (AI) into clinical care. Without greater provider adoption and improved
access, the opportunity it presents to change everyday health care challenges for
patients will never be realized.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) reimbursement is a key driver of
adoption of transformative innovation, like AI – especially in rural areas. While CMS
has noted the potential of AI to increase access, improve outcomes, and lower
costs, outdated laws and regulations are causing barriers that are hampering
clinical adoption. The inconsistent, unreliable, and ad hoc approach to reimbursing
software as a service (SaaS), and FDA approved AI-enabled medical devices, is
having a crippling effect on provider adoption and patient utilization under
Medicare. We provide specific recommendations below, that we believe will be a
productive step towards bolstering adoption of innovative clinical AI tools in health
care that can help us better address critical challenges that are resulting in poor
health outcomes for patients.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS
prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS
regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to
develop or use AI in clinical care. Please provide specific changes and applicable
Code of Federal Regulations citations.
As CMS stated in the CY2023 HOPPS/ASC Final Rule, “Novel and evolving
technologies are introducing advances in treatment options that have the potential
to increase access to care for Medicare beneficiaries, improve outcomes, and
reduce overall costs to the program.” While CMS has recognized the value and the
complex nature of algorithm-based services, machine learning, and clinical analytic
software, the agency’s payment determinations have not been applied uniformly
and consistently to guarantee appropriate payment levels for these products.

We suggest that CMS consider adopting the term algorithm-based healthcare
services (ABHS), which include Software as a Service (SaaS) procedure. ABHS are
clinical analytical services delivered by FDA-cleared devices to a healthcare
practitioner that uses artificial intelligence, machine learning, or other similarly
designed software to produce clinical outputs for the diagnosis or treatment of a
patient’s condition. ABHS provides quantitative and qualitative analyses, including
new, additional clinical outputs that detect, analyze, or interpret data to improve
screening, detection, diagnosis, and treatment of disease. Further, ABHS includes
these services regardless of whether they are delivered by a third party or by a health
care professional using AI software through the cloud, the web, a workstation, or as
embedded in imaging acquisition hardware. Devices embedded with software may
be preferable to certain providers based on their existing imaging equipment,
workflow, and staffing requirements. Note that all procedures currently classified as
SaaS by CMS should also be classified as ABHS.
CMS should utilize its SaaS policy for determining payment for ABHS procedures in
the HOPPS, not its add-on code packaging policy. This approach will ensure that
providers receive fair, appropriate, and stable compensation when they utilize ABHS
to improve outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries. We also recommend that all new
ABHS CPT codes be initially assigned to a New Technology APC (ambulatory
payment classification) payment, based on manufacturer-supplied cost data, until
sufficient claims data are collected to make a proper clinical APC assignment. It is
important to acknowledge that current CMS practices already encompass this
payment methodology and are not consistently used across all new CPT codes.
Furthermore, these CPT codes should remain in the New Technology APC payment
assignment for at least five years, which aligns with the lifespan of a Category III CPT
code, and not be subject to the Universal Low Volume APC policy. This is necessary
to ensure appropriate data collection and analysis can occur while hospitals adopt
ABHS.
We request that CMS clarify and codify the SaaS payment policy as follows:
• CMS should adopt the term “algorithm-based healthcare services” (ABHS),
which include Software as a Service (SaaS) procedure.
• CMS should formalize the exception to the packaged payment policy in
regulatory text, including Software as a Service (SaaS) procedure.
• CMS should ensure ABHS that secure a separate and distinct CPT code through
the AMA CPT coding process are exempt from CMS’s add-on code packing policy
and receive separate payment. CMS should initially assign ABHS CPT codes to a

New Technology APC payment for 5 years, based on manufacture-supplied cost
data, until sufficient claims data is collected to make a proper clinical APC
assignment. Additionally, ABHS APC assignments should not be subject to the
Universal Low Volume APC Policy.
We offer the following recommended revision at 42 CFR 419.2 to formalize and
codify the SaaS policy:
419.2 Basis of payment
(b) Determination of outpatient prospective payment rates: Packaged costs.
(18) Certain services described by add-on codes except as provided in §
419.2(d).
(d) Determination of hospital outpatient prospective payment rates: Separately paid
costs. Software as a Service procedures assigned to CPT add-on codes will be paid
separately at an amount equal to the amount of the payment for the add-on
procedure when the service is furnished without the standalone CPT code. These
codes will be assigned to identical ambulatory payment classifications and status
indicator assignments as their standalone codes. Separate payment will be made
available for these services if the following criteria are met:
(1) The service has been approved by the FDA and has received a CPT code;
and
(2) The service is billed concurrently with the associated service code.