Tennr Proprietary Models 
2024 - 2025

Proprietary Models:
RaeLM™
Tennr's flagship document reasoning model, RaeLM™, is designed to extract complex medical data from messy orders,
referrals, and written notes.


RaeLM is a chorus of models: (1) a checkbox identification and classification model, (2) a vision model for factoring in
page, table and chart layout, and (3) a language model built to decode all the information into simple, human-readable,
structured data.


RaeLM is architected not only to interpret and answer questions based on the language it processes but also
considers the visual format it has been trained on. This is why it's called a vision-language model (VLM).
RaeLM is also specialized to extract specific data points from large bodies of text in a document. Compared with
traditional large language models that operate by reading an entire document to extract a single field of data i.e.
reading an entire referral packet to extract a single patient's first name, if you then asked for the last name, it would
have to repeat this time-consuming process. This is known as embedding the entire document for each query.

RaeLM's efficiency shines when extracting numerous data fields is required—often 50 to 100—from a single
document. Instead of processing and caching the document again for each query, RaeLM processes it once and can
then quickly answer multiple questions. As a result, with this novel approach circumventing the caching problem,
RaeLM is not only more cost-competitive than competitors using large language models such as OpenAI but also
significantly faster.

Triage Vision Language Model (Triage VLM™)
Triage VLM™ classifies and tags each page within a given set of documents. Triage automatically separates non-
target documents from important documents and informs what documents should be sent to which workflows.


Triage VLM is a proprietary, self-learning Vision-Language model (VLM). VLM leverages training techniques
popularized in late 2023 to reason not only on the language of a document, but also on the visual layout of a
document. This enables interpretation of documents that are categorized using visual indicators like reports, tables,
charts, and signatures.
Because each practice classifies documents differently based on per-company rulesets, Triage VLM self-learns for
each Tennr customer. Each customer runs separate model weights that quickly learn, which drives accuracy to >91%
after the first 100 documents and to >96% after the first five hundred.

Tennr Multi-Patient™
Tennr Multi Patient™ is a highly specialized language model built to identify how many patients are present in a
document and on which pages each patient shows up so the document can be split by patient. Because so many
documents come in that have information for many patients, it’s crucial that you can ‘split’ a document up patient by
patient. Doing this across every single packet coming through a business has required an incredibly specialized and
lightweight model trained solely on identifying unique individual patient identifiers.
www.tennr.com

Qualification Model (QLM™)
Tennr’s Health Code Extractor™ identifies patient narrative descriptions and maps them to healthcare codes such as
ICDs, HCPCS, and CPTs. Knowing what description or what narrative corresponds to which code is an integral part of
Tennr’s Health Code Extractors design.


The Qualifications Model (QLM™), uses data extracted by RaeLM and payor guidelines across thousands of CPT &
HCPCS codes. QLM assesses the adherence to criteria across all documents pertaining to the patient. This model
pairs unstructured information from medical documents and any structured ruleset that needs to be evaluated and
acts as similar to other generative output models.
Document De-Identification:
Maintaining patient privacy is critical when building machine learning models that process medical documents. In
accordance with HIPAA regulations, our approach ensures that no patient’s protected health information (PHI) is used
in our model training pipeline. We achieve this by de-identifying documents—removing or transforming all identifiable
fields, including names, dates, addresses, and other sensitive information, while preserving the document’s structure
and integrity. Our de-identification method is conducted in accordance with the Safe Harbor Provision outlined in the
HHS ‘Guidance on Satisfying the Safe Harbor Method’


Our de-identification process is a cornerstone of our approach, this ensures that our models learn from authentic
document structures and clinically relevant data fields but does not make any use of PHI-laden training data.
Additionally, this de-identification is how we can use diverse documents such as customer documents that customers
can use in collaboration with our team to remove PHI and fine tune our models for that particular provider.

Model Improvement:
Currently, our models demonstrates 97.5% accuracy across key data fields that our customers rely on most, reaching
99.9% in standard fields while maintaining around 91% accuracy for more complex data points. This is significantly
higher than any commercially available model for broad application to healthcare documentation on the market. When
integrating documents from new customers with unique data profiles, fine-tuning and or re-training existing models is
sometimes required to correctly attribute information in the context of the customer’s workflows or medical specialty.


In these scenarios, model adjustments are applied broadly but yield immediate benefits for the nuanced customer
context. Overall, the RaeLM model undergoes ongoing bulk improvements. Tagged pages enable Tennr customers to
contribute to their own model improvements over time, making the extraction process progressively more accurate on
a per-customer basis.To complement these model-driven improvements, we continually refine our ruleset in
collaboration with customers use-cases. These rules are not relevant to model performance or training pipelines but
do enhance accuracy by reflecting real-time input on data validation requirements.


For handwriting recognition, progress is constrained by leading OCR technology advancements, which have seen
minimal improvement in recent years in the area of reading medical documents. Tennr is continuously making
innovations in this space. For example, the application of optical character recognition to the identification and
accurate classification of checked and unchecked checkbox data fields has historically been benchmarked at 64%
accuracy across randomly sampled healthcare data. Tennr maintains the world’s largest dataset of labeled medical
checkbox data pairs driving benchmark accuracy of 98% and downstream automation based on checkbox data
extraction.


The Tennr platform is built on the highest performing document reading and reasoning models in healthcare. The
proprietary nature of these models means that Tennr is capable of optimizing, iterating, augmenting and improving on
model performance faster and more efficiently than most other automation solutions making use of generalized or
open source large language models. Tennr is putting these models to work for healthcare impacting the document
flow and pre-visit patient processes for hundreds of practices and providers.

www.tennr.com