June 16, 2025
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20201
Submitted electronically via http://www.regulations.gov
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
The Workgroup for Electronic Data Interchange (WEDI) writes today in response to the
publication in the May 18, 2025, edition of the Federal Register entitled “Health
Technology Ecosystem Request for Information” released by the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, Office of the
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC), Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS).
WEDI was formed in 1991 by then HHS Secretary Dr. Louis Sullivan to identify
opportunities to improve the efficiency of health data exchange. WEDI was named in
the HIPAA legislation as an advisor to the Secretary of HHS. Recognized and trusted
as a formal advisor to the Secretary, WEDI is the leading multi-stakeholder authority on
the use of health information technology (Health IT) to efficiently improve health
information exchange, enhance care quality, and reduce costs. Our broad membership
includes federal government agencies (including CMS and ASTP/ONC), state
government agencies, patient advocate organizations, the leading health plans and
health plan associations, the leading providers and provider associations, standards
development organizations and the developer of operating rules, clearinghouses, and
health IT vendors. With a focus on advancing standards for electronic administrative
transactions, and promoting data privacy and security, WEDI has been instrumental in
aligning the industry to harmonize administrative and clinical data.
WEDI supports and shares HHS’s goals of leveraging Health IT's advanced capabilities
and functions to decrease burden and streamline processes to improve the quality of
care while minimizing administrative costs. We applaud CMS and ASTP/ONC’s
decision to release this RFI and solicit industry perspectives on these critical issues.
Developing and implementing standards and processes that encourage the effective

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 2
and efficient exchange of health information will serve as an important catalyst for
improving the nation’s health care delivery system.
To aid us in developing our response to this RFI, WEDI conducted a Member Position
Advisory (MPA) event on May 28, 2025. Through surveys, interviews, and live events,
the MPA process is designed to solicit WEDI member input on topical issues, public and
private sector proposals, or government regulations. More than 100 individuals
participated in this MPA process to discuss this RFI, representing patient advocate
organizations, health plans, providers, standards development organizations,
clearinghouses, electronic health record (EHR) vendors, as well as consultants and
other Health IT vendors.
General Comments and Recommendations
WEDI’s mission and work are driven by easing administrative burden, putting patients at
the center of their care, implementing consensus based, mature standards that support
automation, and maintaining appropriate safeguards for privacy, security, and
confidentiality. With its emphasis on patient empowerment and effective data exchange,
WEDI supports the direction and purpose of this RFI and we applaud the work of CMS
and ASTP/ONC to improve health IT and reduce administrative burden for all health care
stakeholders.
WEDI’s comments are based on key guiding principles that are integral and essential
considerations of any regulatory action. Specifically, meeting the goals of the bipartisan
21st Century Cures Act and implementation of the CMS Interoperability and Prior
Authorization Final Rule require that relevant stakeholders have ready access to several
key capabilities and functions. Patients and providers must have access to the clinical
data that leads to improved care delivery. New standards and new technologies offer the
promise of more efficient data exchange and reduced administrative burden. As HHS
explores opportunities to improve the health technology environment, it is important to
design a transition that:
• Ensures the health information needs of the patient and their caregivers are at the
center of the ecosystem.
• Promotes seamless, automated data exchange through mature, clear, and
unambiguous standards that have been thoroughly tested and demonstrate
meaningful return on investment (ROI).
• Integrates data exchange efficiently within the health plan, provider, and other end-
users’ workflows.
Continued support for the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule
WEDI supports and shares CMS’s goals of leveraging health IT's advanced capabilities
and functions to decrease burden and streamline processes to improve the quality of care
while minimizing administrative costs. We applaud CMS’s decision to tackle the challenge
of improving interoperability and the burden associated with prior authorization processes

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 3
and requirements. Encouraging industry stakeholders to adopt and use a uniform set of
standards is an important step toward enabling the efficient exchange of health
information and the automation of prior authorization workflows. Similarly, the payer-to-
payer, provider access, and patient access Application Programming Interface (API)
standards promise unprecedented opportunities for the exchange of health information.
We believe the access APIs will facilitate enhanced patient care coordination, close gaps
in care, and more effectively support those health plans and providers in value-based
care arrangements. Real-time electronic transactions also have the potential of reducing
costs for payers and providers by reducing or eliminating manual processes (e.g., fax,
phone, proprietary payer web portal) and decreasing human-to-human provider
communications with health plans.
Efficient feedback loops
HHS should consider developing a process that could capture feedback from Health IT
users and developers on the effectiveness of the functionality of Health IT. Most
importantly, HHS should validate that required data elements and functionality
incorporated into, for example, the certification process, are fully supported by the
developer and effectively perform the role that they were intended. Capturing end user
feedback, including patient and provider perspectives, could be accomplished, in part, by
creating an anonymous survey that would encourage end users and developers to share
their perspectives on the functionality of health IT, the certification process, and certified
software itself. The goal of this process would be to capture real-world input to advise
CMS and ASTP/ONC on future programs and requirements.
Real-world pilots
The health IT environment is constantly changing. CAQH CORE, Health Level Seven,
National Council for Prescription Drug Programs, and X12 continue to develop new
solutions and new implementation guides. While there is great promise with these new
standards, there should be federal support for comprehensive pilot testing using real-
world scenarios and conducted in multiple types of care settings. Additionally, these pilots
should be conducted in a fully transparent manner with the results made public.
The value of piloting goes well beyond simply proving that a standardized approach works
as intended. Piloting a new standard or approach can identify workflow issues that will
either need to be corrected by revising the standard itself or addressed by stakeholders
during implementation. Successful piloting of a new standard and/or workflow approach
can serve to establish a clear return on investment-thus increasing support from plans
and providers. This in turn can accelerate development of the supporting software. This
momentum building within each stakeholder group is critical to avoid an overly protracted
compliance glidepath.
Comprehensive regulatory roadmap
The transition to electronic prior authorization (ePA) and access APIs are only the
beginning of the many Health IT requirements and implementations the industry is
expected to face over the next few years. Uncertainty in terms of what requirements to
meet and when to meet them can divert scarce resources and harm the industry’s ability
to meet these government mandates. The industry is also experiencing a significant

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 4
shortage in its heath IT workforce, especially those with API expertise. Conversely,
regulatory certainty will permit impacted stakeholders to direct appropriate monetary and
personnel resources. We urge CMS and ASTP/ONC to work with its federal partners to
coordinate mandates and compliance dates and develop a regulatory roadmap that
ensures a smooth implementation glidepath for all impacted organizations.
Establish an ongoing public advisory process.
In this ever-changing health IT environment, it will be critical for HHS to have ongoing
industry input from the entities directly impacted by these policies. We recommend that
CMS, ASTP/ONC and other appropriate HHS agencies leverage existing advisory bodies
or establish and support a new public-private sector group convened under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (FACA). This FACA entity should be mandated to guide the
Department as it furthers health IT and interoperability efforts and recommends additional
automation opportunities.
Technology adoption assistance
Due to a lack of resources and technical expertise, small provider organizations
historically have challenges optimizing Health IT to improve the quality of patient care
they provide. This same need for technical assistance was an issue when the provider
community was seeking to adopt Certified EHR Technology (CEHRT) and participate in
the early days of the CMS Meaningful Use EHR Reporting Program.
HHS addressed this issue by deploying Regional Extension Centers (RECs) to offer
technical assistance for solo and smaller provider practices and those who provide
primary care services in public and critical access hospitals, community health centers,
and other settings to implement and maintain EHRs. RECs established themselves as
trusted advisors for these smaller care settings and facilitated the effective use of Health
IT. The REC program was designed to leverage local expertise to provide practical,
customized support to meet the needs of local healthcare providers. The REC core
service areas included: (i) EHR implementation and project management; (ii) Health IT
education and training; (iii) Vendor selection and financial consultation; (iv)
Practice/workflow redesign; and (v) Privacy and security. Each one of these core service
areas appear to mirror what small providers need to assist them implement CEHRT with
ePA and generally for the transition to FHIR-based administrative solutions.
The most effective way to encourage providers to adopt ePA solutions is to establish a
clear ROI related time saved by administrative and clinical staff. Absent that ROI,
especially in times of economic uncertainty, providers will be very unlikely to invest
resources in untried and untested technologies.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 5
Specific Comments on the RFI
Patients and Digital Health
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand
and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you
should take?
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones’
health that can be enabled by digital health products?
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things
you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be
supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future.
Applications (apps) or digital health products (products) that would be useful would
include features that review the patient’s data and offer personalized, specific suggestions
for actions the patient could take based on their information. Those actions could be ones
that would improve their medical condition or overall health needs. Patients have apps
and products that collect various pieces of data or information. What is needed is an
analysis of that data, whether in the standalone app or product or across disparate apps
and products. The most useful outcome from that data and analysis would be suggestions
and resources for what the patient could do next, such as contact their provider, take their
medication, improve their behaviors, or continue their current actions. This enhanced
functionality will require significant improvements in data flow.
App and product developers must work with patients to learn what features, data, and
information will be most impactful to them and then work with providers and health plans
on how to send and receive that data with the patient. Patients will have different wants
and needs for apps and products. Developers should think more broadly about what to
build for patients, keeping in mind how much can be included in one solution or how
multiple solutions can be integrated. Different apps or products may be necessary for
collecting and exchanging clinical information vs. administrative functions, e.g.,
scheduling appointments, paying a bill, or searching a provider directory. If the products
are separate, optimally there should be a linkage that allows for cross-posting of data.
Patients are looking for apps and products that give them a single dashboard of their
health, medical, and wellness needs.
Patients would also like a point of contact within their provider network for who is
managing their data. This most likely will be their primary care physician, care
coordinator, or health navigator within their primary care physician’s practice. It is
important for patients to know their providers are informed of changes in their health
based on data provided and to also know who oversees their data.
Another feature to consider for apps and products is allowing multiple users for a single
solution. Users would be identified as patient, caregiver, and provider. This would give
caregivers the ability to monitor their loved one’s data and information. Having assigned
users with logins and passwords will also offer transparency into who is viewing and
creating content in the app or product.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 6
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones’ health
information in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another
software system)?
a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided?
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one
portal or system to access all such health information?
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were
unavailable?
What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones’ complete health
information electronically and using it for managing health conditions or finding the best
care (for example, limitations in functionality, user friendliness, or access to basic
technology infrastructure)?
For value-based care arrangements, it is necessary to integrate social care needs into
apps and products that support overall health care and medical services. Connecting
patients with community services, such as food banks, transportation, housing, is
important for all patients, but in this case specifically for available waivers or other
supplementary benefit enhancements. Apps or products that can help identify social
services and coordinate these services would increase access to and use of them.
Access to x-rays, specific test results, or other data types not currently contained in the
patient’s portal is critical for patients to self-direct and manage their care. Diagnostic
images are usually stored in a standalone system, which means they are often
unavailable to share with another provider during referral or care coordination scenarios.
It is burdensome for patients to have multiple apps and products, each with its own login
and password, for each type of data needed to manage their care. The data needs to be
in an interoperable form that can easily flow, with appropriate consent, to other providers.
PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or personal health
record apps that would be useful to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers?
Widely speaking, patients to date have not been active users of their data. Previous
efforts with personal health records never gained staying power. Perhaps apps and newer
products can offer data in a format and through a solution or tool that patients find easier
to use and more meaningful in managing their health. With any technology, it is important
to educate patients regarding the value, features, and positive outcomes health IT can
have on their health journey.
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today?
a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet?
b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer?
Most apps and products focus on capturing the data and, when possible, exchanging it
with an authorized user. Providers and health plans would benefit from gathering
information on the patient’s experience with their health care encounters and treatment.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 7
As discussed in PC-1, patients would like apps and products that include suggestions and
resources that will drive them toward actions they should take.
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver
interest in these digital health products?
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on
the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in
the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review
process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can
increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example,
enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary
communications)?
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated
data on patients?
CMS should consider options they have to incentivize patients to use apps and products,
either directly through Medicare such as a discount on their Medicare premium, decrease
in their co-insurance amount, rewards card, etc., or through incentivizing providers.
Providers could facilitate app usage by their patients based on their knowledge of the
patient and what will be most effective for them. Nominal incentives/education may push
patients into using apps and products. Specific to value-based care, incentives for the
patient could be included in the arrangement and would support closing gaps in care.
Educating patients on the use of apps and products specific to their health condition and
needs is also critical. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation could be an
excellent platform to test various patient incentive options.
Another aspect of patients using apps and products is assurance that it is reliable and will
meet their needs. The federal government should consider developing a process and
system for rating or certifying apps and products. This initiative could be undertaken by
HHS, the Federal Trade Commission (for apps that do not fall under the purview of the
Food and Drug Administration), a combination of various federal agencies, or a public-
private sector collaborative. The rating or certification should include an assessment of
the functionality, usability, privacy, and security components.
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible
and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with
limited prior experience using digital tools and services?
Patients need to have a level of assurance that the apps and products they are
considering, at a minimum, have the functionality they need, are easy to use, integrate
with other apps or products they use, and have privacy and security controls. Apps and
products must also be something that the patient can make part of their daily life. Finally,
they must be affordable and integrate seamlessly with their providers’ and health plans’
systems.
The need for App security
Some HIPAA covered entities (CEs), including health plans, physician practices and
inpatient facilities have already built or have contracted with business associates to
develop patient access APIs and apps and are actively promoting their use. Specifically,

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 8
these apps deployed by providers and health plans are typically covered under HIPAA
and therefore the individual’s accessing data have assurances that their information is
being kept private and secure. We are concerned, however, regarding the lack of robust
privacy standards applicable to the large percentage of third-party app developers not
associated with CEs and therefore not covered under HIPAA and the fact that there
currently is no federally recognized certification or accreditation for these apps. The
potential exists for PHI gained via the apps to be inappropriately disclosed to the
detriment of patients and their families. While we strongly support patient access to their
PHI via apps, we assert that a national framework is required to ensure that health care
data obtained by third-party apps is held to high privacy and security standards.
The protections afforded by HIPAA privacy and security have been a fixture in our health
care system for more than two decades. These privacy and security rules lay out a
framework to ensure that PHI will be kept secure, and patients rely on HIPAA to ensure
that the confidentiality of their information is maintained. Organizations that are CEs
under the law have a responsibility to take necessary steps to maintain the trust of
individuals. However, these same individuals may not fully appreciate that individually
identifiable health information collected outside of a HIPAA CE or under a business
associate agreement (BAA) are not afforded HIPAA privacy and security protections.
We continue to be concerned that patients will not have adequate information to be
educated consumers regarding third-party apps and may not fully comprehend that they
are assuming the risk of the security practices implemented by their chosen app.
Specifically, patients may not understand when their information is and is not protected by
HIPAA.
We strongly support the September 15, 2021, FTC policy statement that health apps and
connected devices that collect or use consumers’ health information must comply with the
Health Breach Notification Rule, which requires that they notify patients and others when
their health data is breached. Recent evidence suggests that third-party apps in the
health care environment are vulnerable to security issues. We note that the existing
HIPAA Privacy Rule requires that, in many cases, patients be asked to sign a written
authorization before their PHI may be shared with third parties. In requesting comments
on whether CEs be required to educate or warn individuals that they are transmitting PHI
to an entity that is not covered by these rules, we believe the Department is correctly
assuming that there is potential danger in moving ePHI to third-party apps.
Again, while we are supportive of increasing data exchange for patients via third-party
apps, there is a clear potential that using these apps could result in patients having their
information inappropriately disclosed. We also assert that it is inappropriate to put the
burden of warning the individual solely as the responsibility of the CE. CEs will typically
not be experts on app data privacy and security protocols and will have little time to warn
patients of the potential dangers associated with transmitting ePHI to third parties not
covered by the HIPAA protections. Under current regulation, CEs are not permitted to
require formal verification checks on individual third-party apps before allowing the
application to connect to its API.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 9
We believe that for health care data exchange to occur in an interoperable manner as
called for under the 21st Century Cures legislation, there must be a consistent and high
level of trust among all participants, including entities that are not legally a CE or bound
by a BAA. The deployment of effective federal policies is critical to assist in facilitating this
trust framework.
It is important to note that the CMS Blue Button 2.0 program itself recognizes the
importance of third-party apps maintaining strict privacy protocols. For example, the Blue
Button 2.0 Production Access Checklist includes an adherence to the Blue Button 2.0 API
terms of service and general privacy guidelines. These guidelines include developers
specifying: (i) data collection practices; (ii) the risks in their privacy policy; (iii) the
company’s data disclosure practice, including any use and sharing of de-identified,
anonymized or pseudonymized data; (iv) the company’s data access practice, including
any use and sharing of de-identified, anonymized or pseudonymized data; (v) the
company’s security practice, including any use and sharing of de-identified, anonymized
or pseudonymized data; and (vi) the company’s retention/deletion practice, including any
use and sharing of de-identified, anonymized or pseudonymized data. Collecting this
information from developers will be a critical component of the agency’s effort to protect
the data of Medicare beneficiaries.
Further, the CMS Data at the Point of Care (DPC) API initiative is currently in a pilot
phase in which a limited number of users can access Medicare Fee-For-Service claims
data through the API once their solution has been approved for production. This pilot
program promotes the industry standard FHIR, specifically the Bulk FHIR specification.
We note that health IT implementers preparing to onboard the DPC production
environment are required to provide one of the following CMS-accepted security
certifications: (i) Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
(ONC) Health IT Certification; (ii) HITRUST CSF Validated Assessment; (iii) HITRUST
self-validation assessment (valid for one year from date of first implementation if currently
pursuing the HITRUST validated assessment); Electronic Healthcare Network
Accreditation Commission (EHNAC) Accreditation; System and Organization Controls
(SOC) 2 type 1 certification (valid for one year from date of first implementation if currently
pursuing type 2), or type 2 certified; and (v) International Organization for Standardization
(ISO): 27001, 27017, or 27018 certified.
We offer the following recommendations that we believe will encourage organizations to
take full advantage of electronic exchange and help patients reap the benefits of
streamlined sharing of clinical data:
• Release additional guidance on the types of third-party app security and privacy
verification that will be permitted and allow CEs themselves to undertake an
appropriate level of review of a third-party app before permitting it to connect to
their APIs.
• Require entities that are not HIPAA CEs or business associates to clearly stipulate
to the individual the purposes for which they collect, use, and disclose identifiable
health information and require that these individuals be given clear, succinct notice
concerning the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of individually identifiable

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 10
health information that is not subject to HIPAA.
• Work with the private sector in the development of a privacy and security
accreditation or certification framework for third-party apps seeking to connect to
APIs of certified health IT. Once established, CEs should be permitted to limit the
use of their APIs to third-party apps that have agreed to abide by the framework.
Such a program would not only foster innovation but also establish improved
assurance to patients of the security of their information.
• Apply similar security requirements in the private sector as CMS applies to its Blue
Button 2.0 and DPC initiatives, requiring all third-party apps seeking to access PHI
via provider or health plan APIs to prove adherence to a strict set of privacy and
security guidelines or successfully complete a CMS-approved security certification.
• Partner with groups like WEDI and other professional associations in the
development and deployment of education aimed at a wide range of consumers
and CEs. Enhanced consumer and CE education will lead to significant
improvement in the ability of the consumer and the CE to understand their rights
and responsibilities under the law.
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to
patients or their caregivers or both?
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and
other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims
data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest
value, and why?
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility,
interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more
meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence?
As outlined above, the ability to link social care needs with community services is
currently a gap in apps and products and would be beneficial for patients.
TEFCA
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement™
(TEFCA™) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the
real world?
a. Please provide specific examples.
b. What changes would you suggest?
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA?

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 11
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access
and existing exchange purposes?
e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could improve
data access and integration?
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be consolidated?
g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread patient
access to their health information?
WEDI applauds ASTP/ONC for developing the TEFCA framework and going live with the
network. WEDI is strongly supportive of establishing a framework for the trusted
exchange of electronic health information. TEFCA represents another phase of ONC’s
efforts to advance interoperability across the nation’s health care system in support of the
access, exchange, and use of electronic health information.
We also appreciate the agency proposing to improve the TEFCA infrastructure and add
improved guardrails for Qualified Health Information Networks (QHINs). The current QHIN
administrative process and onboarding methodology is focused very much on self-
directed oversight and a less than optimally rigorous onboarding process. Needed
improvements will shore up administrative processes and instill additional assurance for
those seeking to leverage QHINs to exchange health data.
Patients want their necessary and appropriate information available at the time of their
health service whether through an app or product they provide or through a behind-the-
scenes data exchange methodology, such as one supported by TEFCA. Data exchange
through TEFCA is still evolving and should be evaluated for its ability to meet patients’
and providers’ needs.
We strongly support ASTP/ONCs proposed modifications to QHIN administration. We
urge the agency to finalize: (i) A more thorough verification process that includes
background checks, validation of NPIs, and a rigorous review of organizational
credentials; (ii) A more rapid decertification of QHINs found non-compliant or those
engaged in fraudulent activity; and (iii) Enhanced monitoring of the use of QHIN and
participant credentials. If fraudulent activity is detected, all parties must be contacted
immediately, and appropriate actions taken to protect patient data and stop the continued
use of those credentials.
ASTP/ONC has proposed adding a new part (172) to title 45 of the Code of Federal
Regulations to implement certain provisions to establish the procedures governing QHIN
Onboarding and Designation of QHINs, suspension, termination, and administrative
appeals. We support these provisions as they will establish the qualifications necessary
for an entity to receive and maintain designation as a QHIN capable of trusted exchange
pursuant to TEFCA. We concur with the agency that these proposals, once adopted, will
improve the reliability, privacy, security, and trust within the TEFCA environment. We
believe that implementing these new requirements will instill additional public confidence
in TEFCA and drive acceleration of TEFCA-led data exchange.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 12
WEDI has the following comments and recommendations TEFCA and the draft QHIN
framework:
• We recommend that participation in TEFCA continue to be voluntary.
• We strongly recommend ASTP/ONC actively work with the health plan community
to ensure they are engaged and involved in TEFCA and are incentivized to
participate fully in QHIN data exchange. To achieve that, we recommend ensuring
that data fees do not serve to disincentivize plan participation. We also encourage
the expansion of high-value use cases for health plans as a method to increase
their participation.
• The HIPAA privacy framework has been a fixture in our health care system for
more than two decades. Patients rely on HIPAA to ensure that the confidentiality of
their information is maintained. Ensuring that TEFCA facilitates trust in the privacy
and security of the information being exchanged as well as improved health
outcomes for individuals will be critical to its success.
• For health care data exchange to happen in an interoperable manner as called for
under the 21st Century Cures rules, there must be confidence that participants
meet a minimum level of privacy and security. We recommend ASTP/ONC and the
RCE explore requiring each participant within the exchange environment to
complete an appropriate and independent third-party privacy and security
accreditation.
• WEDI recommends ASTP/ ONC and the RCE move forward with support of FHIR-
based standards as a more secure and scalable option for interoperable exchange
of health information.
Leveraging new standards and technologies, including FHIR and HL7 Unified Data
Access Profiles may offer a method to address current challenges and inability to scale
solutions. We also note that the industry shift toward FHIR includes CMS and ONC
regulatory requirements. As a result of these mandates, we are concerned that health
plans and other impacted stakeholders have and will make a considerable financial and
human investment in this new approach. Requiring an older unsupported standard
(Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise) could force stakeholders to potentially incur the
financial cost of supporting the two standards and necessitate the challenging task of
identifying and hiring staff with expertise in the older standard. Overall, forcing
stakeholders who otherwise would be interested in participating in the exchange
framework to support multiple exchange standards could have the unintended
consequence of limiting participation.
Further, there appears to be concern regarding the “maturity” level of FHIR for use in an
exchange framework. As evidenced by the FHIR at Scale Taskforce (FAST), HL7 Da
Vinci, and Argonaut initiatives, considerable progress has been made in developing
FHIR-based exchange protocols. ASTP/ONC and the RCE should ensure that TEFCA
and the ongoing work of ONC FAST, HL7, and the FHIR accelerators are aligned and
leveraged. Impacted stakeholders must work together to create a unified, integrated and

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 13
agreed upon approach to move forward and establish a common exchange process
implementation roadmap. We expect that avoiding duplication of effort and eliminating the
requirement to support multiple standards will result in greater participation in the
exchange network and this in turn will lead to a greater impact on patient care.
WEDI commends the work of the ASTP/ONC and the Sequoia Project as the Recognized
Coordinating Entity (RCE) to advance the interoperability of electronic health information.
The bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act pushed for interoperability to be a priority for the
industry and TEFCA represents an important step towards achieving this goal. As
ASTP/ONC further develops their approach to advancing interoperability, we encourage
further collaboration with CMS, as well as industry stakeholders such as WEDI.
PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance
patient access to health information in the real world?
a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?
b. What changes would you suggest?
c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe should
be propagated across markets?
d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities facilitating data exchange and
broader frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health information networks,
TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)?
Executing data sharing agreements has historically been the barrier to the exchange of
patient data. TEFCA was created to address this issue and fill in any gaps between health
information exchanges (HIE). Now with TEFCA, more organizations should be able to
engage in data exchange, whether through an HIE or independently.
HIEs have the potential to play a central role in data exchange in regional communities
where trust and support tend to be higher, facilitating more data exchanges. As patients
and providers experience data exchange capabilities through HIEs, they will better
understand the benefits. Patients are frustrated by the need to repeat their medical history
and information to multiple providers throughout the care journeys. HIEs can solve this
problem by allowing patient information from one provider to flow to another in the care
team, with the patient’s consent.
One consideration is to have HIEs function as a utility and manage them at the state
level. This could bring commonality, capabilities, and expectations for the functionality
related to interoperability, data exchange, and privacy and security.
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information
blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC’s Information Blocking Portal? What would be
the impact? Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively
impact data exchange?
We recommend CMS provide education to the broad population of patients on what
information blocking is and is not, and what the requirements are and are not. There is
much confusion in the industry regarding what constitutes information blocking and what

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 14
are the exceptions to information sharing. In general, there continues to be confusion
across the industry related to the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and what can and
cannot be shared and under what circumstances. Additionally, patients often cannot
distinguish whether their provider or the provider's certified health IT vendor is
responsible for data blocking. Without clearly explaining to patients the roles and
responsibilities of each actor—such as healthcare providers, certified health IT vendors,
and Health Information Exchanges/Networks—complaints about information blocking may
incorrectly identify the responsible party, wasting resources at ASTP/ONC and OIG. We
believe providing specific (de-identified) examples of information blocking would be very
beneficial to impacted stakeholders. CMS can leverage its existing communication
channels for patients, providers, and others.
In addition, ASTP/ONC has proposed in the HTI-2 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to
revise the sub-exception to remove the existing limitation that applies the exception only
to individual requested restrictions on EHI sharing that are permitted by other applicable
law. We support the proposal to broaden the sub-exception’s availability by removing its
existing limitation to individual-requested restrictions on EHI sharing.
In addition, we concur with the agency that this proposal would lead to improved
assurance for any actor who elects to honor an individual’s request for restrictions on
sharing of the individual’s EHI that applying those restrictions will not be considered
information blocking if the requirements of this sub-exception are satisfied. It is also
expected to provide enhanced assurance for individuals that information blocking
regulations support actors’ choices to honor the individual’s request and not share EHI
when the individual asks that it not be shared. WEDI also supports the proposal to revise
the sub-exception. We urge the agency to develop comprehensive guidance to ensure
actors understand when and how the Privacy Sub-exception applies.
WEDI also support the addition of the “Requestor Preference” exception and urge the
agency to finalize this new exception with one important modification. This exception
would offer providers certainty that it would not be considered information blocking to
adhere to a requestor’s preferences for: limitations on the scope of EHI, the conditions
under which EHI is made available to the requestor, and the timing of when EHI is made
available to the requestor for access, exchange, or use.
We recognize the challenge of ensuring that while the patient still has full access to their
health information when they need it, and in the format they request, there may be a
desire on the part of the requestor to have information be first sent to and reviewed by
their care professional. Actors should have the ability to discuss with their patients how
they would prefer to receive health information such as laboratory or radiology results.
Patients should have the right to dictate that these and other types of test results be sent
directly to the care professional, who then can inform the patient, discuss the results, and
plan the course of treatment.
We do recommend a change to the proposed exception. The proposal requires the
patient to express their preference in writing, which we believe would be inappropriate.
Patients trust their care professionals and should have the ability to communicate their
preferences verbally during the consultation process. Adding yet another form for patients

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 15
to fill out and for providers to collect and store increases the administrative burden on
both sides. As an alternative, we urge the agency to consider adding a field in the
certification criteria that would permit the care professional to record patient preferences.
Digital Identity
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use digital
identity credentials?
b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were
more widely used?
c. What are the potential downsides?
d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information?
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving
adoption?
f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials?
While the use of digital identity could be helpful for patient access to various apps and
products, there will be limitations and challenges to its implementation. The process to
obtain a digital identity can be cumbersome, as it includes completing an application,
being vetted by the organization providing the digital identity, going in person to prove
your identity, and paying an initial fee and the ongoing subscription cost. Not all patients
will be able to or want to obtain a digital identity. Patient education will be needed on
digital identity and credentials, including how to obtain one, how to manage it, how to link
it to their apps and products, how to share it appropriately, and what to do if they have a
problem with it.
It is unknown if the capabilities to support digital identities exist in current systems.
Providers, health plans, and other users of digital identities will need to learn how to
accept, store, protect, and share them. This will likely incur additional costs and could
overwhelm smaller and rural organizations.
The proposal to implement digital identities raises the question about the never
implemented, HIPAA-required national patient identifier. Development of the patient
identifier was stopped following widespread concern about patient privacy and having a
database with each individual and a linking identifier. While digital identity is not an all-
encompassing database of individuals, there will be security concerns associated with it.
At this time, WEDI recommends additional work and an end-to-end pilot be done to
evaluate the various aspects of the use of digital identities in health care. WEDI agrees
with allowing the use of digital identities among willing trading partners and based on the
receivers’ (patient, provider, and health plan) ability. Digital identities should not be
required until further study is done on their effectiveness in solving the problem for which
they are being implemented.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 16
PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials
(for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead
of proprietary logins that need to be tracked for each provider relationship?
a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set of
trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for each
provider?
b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience and access to digital
health products and services that may lead to significant improvements in health?
Demonstrating the use of digital identities with patients and other partners to
successfully solve an existing workflow issue will encourage providers to adopt, accept,
and share digital identities.
Providers rely heavily on their technology vendors to develop and implement solutions
that address their needs. It is unknown at this time if the capabilities to support digital
identities exist in electronic health records (EHR) and revenue cycle systems. Vendors
will need to verify if a provider’s current systems can accommodate digital identities. If
not, vendors will need to build the solution and install it. Providers will need to learn how
to accept, store, protect, and share them. All of this will come at a cost for the software
installation or upgrade, training of staff, and ongoing digital identity service costs.
Providers will want some assurance that the costs for accommodating digital identities
will provide a return on investment and that there will be widespread usage by their
patients and other partners.
In today’s cyber environment, providers are often prime targets for cybersecurity and
ransomware attacks because of the important and sensitive data contained in EHRs
and revenue cycle systems. Storing digital identities and sharing them across users
could make them more of a target for criminals wanting to steal this new data within
their systems. This risk impacts patients whose digital identity would be compromised
and overall patient care when services are stopped due to systems being offline. We
recommend HHS evaluate the potential effect of digital identities on cybersecurity
attacks and any preventive measures providers could employ to lessen their
vulnerabilities.
Due to these various concerns, WEDI recommends that additional work be done by
CMS, ASTP/ONC and other HHS agencies to develop a full understanding of the need,
costs, and impact of implementing digital identities. WEDI agrees with allowing the use
of digital identities among willing trading partners and based on the receivers’ (patient,
provider, and health plan) ability. Digital identities should not be required until further
study is done on their effectiveness in solving the problem for which they are being
implemented.
PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs):
a. What are the challenges and benefits for providers?
b. How would requiring their use improve access to health information?
c. What are the potential downsides?

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 17
d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a nationwide provider directory?
e. How could digital identity implementation improve provider data flow?
f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data flow?
There are several challenges for the implementation of digital identities for providers.
The primary concern is how this project will fit within the timeline and budget of other
projects currently underway to comply with multiple regulatory requirements. Providers
have limited resources in terms of finances and staff to manage these many projects.
Providers will need to have a clear understanding of how prioritizing an implementation
of digital identities fits with the project plan of other requirements and the value it will
bring to their organization.
As stated earlier, providers will need to have a full understanding of what problem is
being solved with digital identity and whether the outcome will be achieved. Is this
problem large enough and will the solution resolve it in a manner that will make it worth
the costs of implementing and maintaining it.
Other barriers include available technology, costs, resources, and usage by patients.
Providers rely heavily on their IT vendors to provide these types of solutions, and this
comes at a cost. Smaller and rural providers are currently under immense financial
pressure and do not have readily available resources for a project of this scope. An
outstanding question is also whether patients will obtain digital identities and then want
to use them in their health care interactions. Providers will not want to invest in this
technology if it is not widely used by their patients and other partners.
Again, WEDI recommends that additional work be done by CMS and other HHS
agencies to develop a full understanding of the need, costs, and impact of implementing
digital identities. WEDI supports allowing the use of digital identities, but they should not
be required until there is a better understanding of their effectiveness.
PR-11. How could members of trust communities (for example, QHINs,
participants and subparticipants in TEFCA, which requires Identity Assurance
Level 2 (IAL2) via Credential Service Providers (CSPs)) better support the goals of
reduced provider and patient burden while also enhancing identity management
and security?
Providers will want to see a proven use case for how digital identities will enhance
identity management while reducing burden and cost. HIEs are currently managing their
patient matching capabilities using algorithms and not digital identifiers. Additional
information is needed to understand the current need and how digital identities will
address it.
PA-3. How can CMS encourage payers to accept digital identity credentials (for
example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of
proprietary logins?
As we have stated, there are several challenges for the implementation of digital
identities for payers. Payers, like providers, will want to understand how this project will
fit within the timeline and budget of other projects currently underway to comply with
multiple regulatory requirements. Payers will want a clear understanding of how

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 18
prioritizing implementation of a digital identity solution fit with the project plan of other
requirements and the value it will bring to their organization.
Payers will also want a full understanding of what problem is being solved with digital
identity and whether the outcome will be achieved. They will want a proven use case for
how digital identities will enhance identity management while reducing burden and cost.
CMS and other HHS agencies should develop a full understanding of the need, costs,
and impact of implementing digital identities. WEDI supports allowing the use of digital
identities, but they should not be required until there is a better understanding of their
effectiveness.
TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
a. What are the challenges and benefits?
b. How would requiring digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybersecurity and data
exchange?
c. What impact would mandatory use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol have?
The challenges for technology vendors, data providers, and networks (collectively
referred to as “vendors” hereafter) related to implementing digital identity specifications
are similar to those of providers and payers. Vendors will want to understand how this
project will fit within the timeline and budget of other projects currently underway that
will support their customers’ requirements and needs. Vendors will want a clear
understanding of how prioritizing the implementation of digital identity will benefit their
customers.
Providers are currently prime targets for cybersecurity and ransomware attacks
because of the rich source of data contained in EHRs and revenue cycle systems.
Vendors will need to determine if there are any additional system capabilities that can
be deployed to better safeguard the digital identity data. It is likely that providers having
this data in their systems will make them more of a target for criminals. CMS should
complete a thorough evaluation of the potential effect of digital identity on cybersecurity
attacks and any preventive measures providers could employ to lessen their
vulnerabilities.
WEDI recommends that additional work be done by CMS and other HHS agencies to
develop a full understanding of the need, costs, and impact of implementing digital
identities. WEDI supports allowing the use of digital identities, but they should not be
required until there is a better understanding of their effectiveness.
VB-14. How could implementing digital identity credentials improve value-based
care delivery and outcomes?
As with other stakeholders, value-based care organizations need a better
understanding of what problem is being solved with digital identity and whether the
outcome will be achieved. They will want to see a proven use case for how digital
identity will enhance identity management while reducing burden and cost. Additional
information is needed to understand the current need and how digital identity will
address it.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 19
As the Department seeks to support the transition to value-based care, WEDI
recommends that additional work be done by CMS and other HHS agencies to develop
a full understanding of the need, costs, and impact of implementing digital identities.
WEDI supports allowing the use of digital identities, but they should not be required until
there is a better understanding of their effectiveness.
USCDI
TD–7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what
are its limitations?
a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the way it is
utilized?
c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping
challenges? How could such challenges be addressed?
The United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) standard is a baseline set of
data that can be commonly exchanged across care settings for a wide range of use
cases. While v3 is currently required as part of the ASTP/ONC Health IT Certification
Program criteria, v4 has been proposed. We support requiring USCDI v4 as part of the
Health IT Certification Program.
We note that there was some support among WEDI members for adopting USCDI v5, as
ASTP/ONC approved USCDI v5 earlier, the majority supported establishing USCDI v4 as
the baseline standard for data elements to be collected under the Certification Program, a
January 1, 2028, start date for v4, and supported establishing an expiration date of
January 1, 2028, for USCDI v3 for purposes of the Certification Program.
Certification
TD–8. What are the most effective certification criteria and standards under the
ONC Health IT Certification Program?
We are strongly supportive of ASTP/ONC including ePA into the provider ONC Health IT
Certification Program. Publication of the landmark CMS Interoperability and Prior
Authorization Final Rule earlier this year established an API-based communication
protocol between the provider and the health plan that we believe has the potential to
significantly streamline the prior authorization process. As software developers supporting
providers are not covered entities under HIPAA, CMS requires that providers participating
in one of the Medicare EHR incentive programs attest to completing at least one
electronic prior authorization utilizing an API.
By creating an ePA certification component, ASTP/ONC has the potential of streamlining
the prior authorization process and decreasing administrative burden and cost for both
health plans and providers by: (i) Reducing the volume of calls between providers and
health plans simply to establish whether a prior authorization is required; (ii) Clarifying the
clinical documentation required to support a prior authorization; (iii) Eliminating lost health
plan requests for additional documentation and provider responses; (iv) Reducing the

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 20
cost associated with staff manual collection of supporting documentation; (v) Decreasing
plan documentation requests as there would be improved predictability of plan content
needs (i.e., plans could be specific in what they required to render an authorization
decision), thus eliminating the time consuming “back and forth” that currently exists in the
system; and (vi) Reducing pended decisions, administrative appeals, and costly peer-to-
peer discussions, resulting in increased adherence to health plan policy and faster
treatment approvals.
Establish effective certification timing
The expansion of the ASTP/ONC certification program to incorporate access and prior
authorization APIs will be important steps on the road to full industry adoption of this
standard. We continue to be concerned that if the appropriate certification timing is not
developed, it could result in needless costs, delays in benefits for health plans, providers,
and patients, as well as unnecessary stakeholder burdens. We recommend ASTP/ONC
work closely with CMS to ensure the appropriate implementation glidepath is established.
We note that delays in implementing the ePA certification could create greater inertia, if
not resistance, in the provider marketplace and create confusion for plans seeking to take
advantage of automating prior authorization. WEDI also recommends CMS explore
phasing in the Da Vinci API requirements, with Coverage Requirements Discovery (CRD)
being considered for the initial implementation.
We believe the optimum glidepath would have the ONC provider Health IT Certification
Program go live prior to the January 1, 2027 compliance date established in the CMS
Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule for the API requirements. To advance
provider implementation efforts, the compliance date for the Health IT Certification
Program ePA certification requirements should occur optimally no less than six months
prior to the January 1, 2027, date providers and plans will begin exchanging data using
these new standards.
Intersection with the X12 278 transaction
It is uncertain how providers and health plans will continue leveraging the HIPAA
mandated X12 Health Care Services Review and Response transaction (278). According
to the 2024 CAQH Index Report, while industry adoption of the X12 278 remains low at
35%, it has gone up from just 13% in 2019.
Further, while we appreciate the release on February 23, 2024, of the CMS X12 278
enforcement discretion for all HIPAA covered entities, we remain concerned that this
discretion could be sunsetted at any time. Requiring the inclusion of the X12 278
transaction as part of the API process would result in needless burden and cost for both
providers and health plans. With that in mind, we urge CMS to finalize the HIPAA
exception regarding use of the X12 278 transaction in the PA process when stakeholders
conduct electronic PA with APIs.
Should the ONC Health IT Certification Program only support FHIR-based APIs, it is
unsure how EHRs will effectively conduct prior authorizations with providers and health
plans that continue to use the X12 278 standard. We anticipate there will be a significant
length of time past the January 1, 2027 ePA compliance date when providers will use the
X12 278 to conduct prior authorization transactions with their health plan partners. We

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 21
urge ASTP/ONC to work with CMS to address how the use of the FHIR standard will
interact with the long-term use of the HIPAA-mandated X12 278.
Health plan certification
While we appreciate ASTP/ONC proposal to stand up a certification program for those
Health IT developers that support health plan efforts to meet the API requirements in the
CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule, we recommend an alternative
approach.
HIPAA designated providers, health plans, and clearinghouses as “covered entities”
under the law but excluded software developers. Thus, the certification program for
Health IT software developers was developed to serve as a catalyst for providers to adopt
EHR technology that met the requirements of the CMS inpatient and outpatient EHR
incentive programs. Participation by providers in these CMS incentive programs
continues to be voluntary, although there are significant financial incentives and
disincentives associated with the program.
Under the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule, providers are not
required to comply with the prior authorization APIs, although incorporation of the APIs is
included in the CY 2027 performance period/2029 MIPS payment year for the Medicare
Promoting Interoperability Program. Incorporating prior authorization APIs in an EHR
certification is appropriate as it, again, will serve as a catalyst for providers to take
advantage of this administrative simplification opportunity.
The 2024 CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule applies only to
Medicare Advantage plans, Medicaid and CHIP managed care plans, state Medicaid and
CHIP Fee for Service (FFS) programs, and Qualified issuers on the federally facilitated
exchanges (FFEs). The health plans impacted by the CMS Interoperability and Prior
Authorization Final Rule are legally required to comply with the prior authorization APIs
included in the regulation. Offering a voluntary prior authorization API certification would
be redundant and we do not believe a significant number of impacted health plans or
plans not mandated in the Final Rule to support the prior authorization APIs, would incur
the expense of seeking certification. Further, those providers seeking to connect via APIs
with impacted health plans after January 1, 2027, who found that the health plan was
unable to support the prior authorization APIs, will have the ability lodge a formal
complaint against the health plan directly to CMS.
Deploying APIs in support of prior authorization is new to the health care industry. As an
alternative to offering a voluntary Health IT Certification Program for developers serving
the health plan market, we recommend an expansion of the HL7 Inferno testing platform
that would allow both health plans and providers to test their individual ability to support
the APIs. Inferno, as an open-source tool, creates, executes, and shares automated
conformance tests for the FHIR® Standard. Inferno on HealthIT.gov hosts tests created
with Inferno, but Inferno is also designed to allow the creation and hosting of individual
tests. ASTP/ONC should also explore the option of expanding the platform to include
testing end-to-end business processes.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 22
With augmented support from ASTP/ONC, this expanded Inferno platform could offer all
testing entities (health plans, providers, and their supporting vendors) both an opportunity
to test systems and processes, and the ability to publicly report successful testing. We
believe that public reporting of successful tests would incentivize other entities to conduct
testing and report success.
WEDI makes the following additional certification recommendations:
• Fully harmonize the certification criteria to the CMS Interoperability and Prior
Authorization Final Rule requirements. It is imperative that the API requirements
of the ONC Health IT Certification Program be harmonized with the requirements
mandated by the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule. Deviation
from these requirements will lead to industry confusion and the potential for less
than optimum industry adoption of this new technology.
• Develop an ePA module certification program to support all providers. There
are a significant number of provider types that traditionally do not participate in one
of the CMS EHR incentive programs. These include pediatricians, dentists,
physical therapists, and others. Many of these providers use EHR technology that
is specifically designed to meet the needs of that specialty and does not require all
the functionality that is included in the ONC certification criteria. Therefore, in many
cases these “specialty” software products will not be certified under the ONC
Health IT Certification Program. To allow these specialty vendors to offer products
that conform to the ONC ePA requirements and take advantage of the API
automation opportunities, we encourage ASTP/ONC to work with these specialties
and design an ePA specific certification approach that meets their needs and
facilitates support of the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule
API requirements.
Similarly, we encourage ASTP/ONC to develop a module approach that conforms
to the ONC ePA requirements to support self-developed EHR software. These self-
developed EHRs often meet the needs of specific providers-some of whom may
not require the complete functionality required from the full ONC certification.
Allowing these products to certify to the ePA requirements in the CMS
Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule will allow these providers to take
full advantage of the ePA API automation opportunities.
• Integrate real-time solutions into the certification requirements when
available. The 2020 ONC report “Strategy on Reducing Regulatory and
Administrative Burden Relating to the Use of Health IT and EHRs,” includes
recommendations for improving prior authorization processes. On page 18 of the
report, ONC signaled its clear support for real-time ePA transactions when it
makes the following recommendation: “Support automation of ordering and prior
authorization processes for medical services and equipment through adoption of
standardized templates, data elements, and real-time standards-based electronic
transactions between providers, suppliers and plans.”
Real-time ePA transactions such as the CRD have the potential of reducing cost

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 23
for health plans and providers by eliminating manual (e.g., fax, phone, and
proprietary plan web portal) communications from the provider to the plan. These
real-time CRD decisions on whether a medical service requires a prior
authorization is an important step toward reducing administrative burden for both
plans and providers.
Requiring adherence to finalized HL7 Da Vinci Implementation Guide that includes
a real-time response (as defined in the Implementation Guide) from the health plan
to the provider’s use of the CRD API should be a goal of the certification program.
It is important to note that in the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final
Rule, the agency recommends adherence to the HL7 Da Vinci ePA Implementation
Guides but does not require adherence. We are hopeful that once providers have
the capability to initiate real-time CRD, impacted and non-impacted providers will
be incentivized to purchase the technology and health plans incentivized to support
this approach. We believe the eventual move to real-time CRD will decrease
provider use of manual approaches to establish whether or not a service requires
authorization from a health plan.
• Work with CMS to incorporate drug PA APIs into the certification criteria. We
note that although prior authorizations for medications was not required in the CMS
Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule, it was included in the Spring
2024 Unified Agenda under the title “Interoperability Standards and Prior
Authorization for Drugs (CMS-0062).” The Unified Agenda states “This rule CMS
would propose new requirements for Medicare Advantage (MA) organizations and
Qualified Health Plans (QHPs) offered on the Federally-facilitated Exchanges
(FFEs) to streamline processes for the prior authorization for certain drugs. We
are developing this rule, in part, based on the significant number of public
commenters who responded to the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization
proposed rule (87 FR 76238) urging CMS to expand the proposed prior
authorization policies to include drugs. Increasing physician access to these high-
value functionalities will address well-known transparency issues and
administrative burdens related to drug prescribing and PA.” Including drugs
covered under a patient’s medical benefit plan as part of the prior authorization
APIs would significantly improve the usability of the APIs, would decrease
administrative costs for health plans and providers, incentivize those health plans
and providers not impacted by the Final Rule to adopt the technology, and improve
the care delivery process for patients.
• Support for eRx and RTBT. We strongly support the inclusion into the base EHR
certification criteria of both NCPDP standards for electronic prescribing (eRx) and
the real-time prescription benefit (RTPB). We urge ASPT/ONC to align with the
CMS final rule requiring use of the NCPDP RTPB Standard Version 13. According
to NCPDP, RTPB was developed to harmonize, as much as possible, with the
NCPDP SCRIPT Standard and the NCPDP Telecommunication Standard. It
supports information related to products and services covered under the pharmacy
benefit and includes medications, vaccines, supplies/devices, and prescription
digital therapeutics.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 24
Both the updated eRx standard and RTPB standards will add significant value to
the entire care delivery process. With eRx, there is decreased administrative
burden for ordering clinicians and pharmacists, and improved medication
adherence with patients. RTPB allows providers to receive accurate information
regarding whether an ordered prescription is in the patient’s health plan formulary,
whether the prescription requires prior authorization, what the patient out-of-pocket
costs will be, and potentially any appropriate therapeutic alternatives. This benefits
the health plan by reducing the number of prior authorization requests from the
provider and having the RTPB system steer the provider toward an in-formulary,
lower cost option. For the care professional, these automated approaches can
significantly decrease administrative costs and improve patient medication
adherence.
Patients finding out once they arrive at the pharmacy that their prescription is
prohibitively expensive may not fill the prescription and therefore not receive the
expected benefits. Many may be forced to contact the care professional for
additional consultations, adding burden to themselves and their care professional.
With the RTPB system in place, patients are more likely to receive the appropriate
prescription, receive it faster, and at a lower cost.
Certification and value-based care
Value-based care serves as a key foundation for CMS’ strategy to incentivize
improvements in health outcomes rather than increases in the volume of services. We
concur that the deployment of effective technology is critical to this transformation. It is
clear there are significant opportunities to better align technology requirements with the
needs of providers participating in Alternative Payment Models (APMs) and other value-
based care programs. It is critical to deploy a coordinated federal strategy that aligns
positive incentives, standards, and support mechanisms to accelerate digital
transformation in value-based care. Among other areas of inquiry, CMS and ASTP/ONC
request input on requirements for the use of CEHRT, and how such requirements can
enable value-based care and meet statutory requirements while meeting other program
objectives, such as reducing provider burden, to better support value-based care adoption
among providers, and subsequently improve patient choice and competition in the
healthcare marketplace.
Bulk FHIR
TD–15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs: a. How would increased use of bulk FHIR
improve use cases and data flow?
Bulk FHIR offers significant promise of effective data exchange with a number of use
cases. We believe bulk FHIR-based exchange can augment the “one-off” queries that are
more common today. Providers seeking data downloads for a group of patients would
greatly benefit by having bulk capability. Similarly, both health plans and providers in
value-based care arrangements could effectively leverage bulk FHIR to exchange patient
information. Public health and quality reporting are also potential use cases.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 25
There are challenges associated with bulk FHIR, including potential costs. Also, it will be
important to deploy appropriate guardrails around who can pull and consume bulk data.
We also recognize that data is retrieved based on resource type and then must be
stitched back together to put the pieces together. This process can be very difficult,
especially for new users. Overall, we encourage the development of bulk FHIR as it could
address many provider and health plan data needs but at the same time we encourage
the development of appropriate guardrails. We also recommend CMS and ASTP/ONC
ensure that the bulk-FHIR standard is well tested prior to it being required.
Price Transparency
TD–19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers,
including CMS?
d. What would further motivate solution development?
WEDI fully supports consumers having timely and accurate pricing information to improve
health care decision making. It is, however, imperative that an appropriate balance be
struck between the value for consumers and the burden on stakeholders to produce and
maintain this information.
While Medicare and other government health plans are not subject to the No Surprises
Act (NSA), requirements of the law have introduced the potential for significant burdens
on providers who care for Medicare beneficiaries and health plans that administer
benefits for them. WEDI has submitted several letters to HHS and CMS making
recommendations for alternative approaches to meeting the requirements established in
the NSA.
GFE and AEOB
Since passage of the landmark legislation the industry has had time to closely evaluate
the new workflows, processes, and functions that would need to be implemented to meet
the legislative requirements for generating Good Faith Estimates (GFE) for both insured
and uninsured patients and Advanced Explanation of Benefits (AEOB) for insured
patients. Currently, there are no existing data exchange standards that fulfill the
operational requirements of the GFE, the AEOB, or the “convening provider” provisions of
the law. To meet the intent of the law, WEDI recommends that CMS consider the
objectives of the GFE and AEOB requirements, to provide consumers with timely and
accurate cost information, and identify alternative methods to achieve these goals.
For insured consumers, CMS should explore the use of online price estimator tools on
publicly accessible websites where the consumer has immediate access to a broad range
of accurate medical service pricing information. WEDI also urges a public-private sector
collaboration to develop and test NSA data exchange standards and workflow processes.
Finally, WEDI strongly recommends that CMS exercise its discretion and not enforce any

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 26
NSA data exchange requirements until appropriate transactions have been identified, fully
tested, and determined to function correctly.
Further, WEDI urges CMS to develop and disseminate educational materials to assist
consumers in better understanding their rights under the NSA and how they can best use
cost, quality, and other data to access affordable quality care. WEDI, with its
multistakeholder membership, is ready and willing to collaborate with CMS on this effort.
National Health Care Directory
PA–4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide provider directory that
included FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials?
TD–5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
WEDI applauds and supports the efforts of CMS to explore innovative approaches to
collecting provider data and improving the accuracy of that information. WEDI shares the
Agency’s commitment to facilitating interoperability, reducing administrative burden, and
enhancing the ability of consumers to access accurate and actionable data. As the
Department explores various options for developing a National Health Care Directory
(NHCD), we urge the process to be a public-private sector collaboration. As the collective
voice of the health care industry on health IT issues, we are pleased to continue our
important partnership with CMS as you and your colleagues develop regulations, industry
guidance, and educational programming on the NHCD and other related initiatives.
Creating and maintaining an accurate directory of hundreds and thousands of physicians
and other providers and ensuring that it is up to date is a challenging task. Government
and commercial health plans rely on real-time, accurate provider data to deliver effective
and high-quality member experiences and comply with applicable regulations. The No
Surprises Act, included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021, recognizes the
challenges consumers face in accessing accurate data by placing new requirements on
providers to regularly report information and health plans to maintain accurate directories.
As we will outline in our comments, while there are many challenges that must be
overcome, if the NHCD is developed in such a way that the nation’s providers accurately
report their data and federal and commercial health plans populate their directories with this
information, provider administrative burden and industry cost will be significantly reduced.
The research studies conducted by CMS over the past few years identified a consistent
level of inaccurate information and opportunities for improvement in provider directory
maintenance. CMS released the results of its third round of annual review of the Medicare
Advantage Organizations (MAOs) provider directories completed its third round of
Medicare Advantage (MA) online provider directory reviews between November 2017 and
July 2018. The review examined the accuracy of 108 providers and their listed locations
selected from the online directories of 52 Medicare Advantage Organizations (MAOs),

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 27
approximately one-third of MAOs, for a total of 5,602 providers reviewed at 10,504
locations. The review found that 48.74% of the provider directory locations listed had at
least one inaccuracy. The types of inaccuracies included: (i) The provider was not at the
location listed; (ii) The phone number was incorrect; or (iii) The provider was not
accepting new patients when the directory indicated they were.
This CMS research suggests that the current directory environment has resulted in a
unacceptably high inaccuracy rate. Why has it proven so difficult to report and present
provider data? Provider information is complex and incorporates myriad data elements
such as contracting relationships, network tiers, and multiple provider locations. Making it
even more challenging, the data are dynamic and constantly changing such as the
requirement for directories to indicate which providers are accepting new patients.
Providers, especially large group practices with potentially hundreds of practitioners, face
significant challenges keeping information current. As a result, health plans encounter
difficulties ensuring that data is up to date. Further, with no standard data set and no
standard interface or reporting approach, providers are required to submit often different
information through multiple interfaces resulting in considerable administrative burden.
As envisioned, a NHCD could reduce the overall burden of keeping health care directory
data up-to-date and accurate. At a minimum, harmonizing the provider information
requirements for the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System (NPPES) and the
Medicare Provider Enrollment, Chain, and Ownership System (PECOS), as well as for
other federal programs, would reduce provider reporting burden significantly. We concur
with CMS that providers and their staff would be more likely to keep a single repository
updated and verify it more frequently. However, to make the greatest impact, providers of
all types must be incentivized to participate, the data must be accurate and verified, and
commercial health plans must be incentivized to leverage this data for their own
directories. We also encourage CMS to work with the industry to understand and solve
the root causes that lead to directory inaccuracies and burden.
The development of an NHCD presents a unique opportunity for the federal government
to collect and disseminate information that would directly assist underserved and
disadvantaged communities. Collecting information on such entities as food banks,
mental health services, transportation assistance programs, and other social services and
then making that information available to consumers, organizations that assist
underserved and disadvantaged, providers, health plans, and API developers would be
extremely beneficial.
There are multiple potential stakeholder types that would engage with the NHCD, with
each requiring a unique approach to incentivizing participation:
• Providers/health systems: One of the most effective motivations for providers to
participate in the NHCD will be the opportunity to significantly reduce the number
of entities they are required to report data to. Requiring providers currently
participating in Medicare and Medicaid programs to enter their data into the NHCD
will be one potential way to jumpstart the directory.
Creating a streamlined process and standardized set of data will greatly reduce the

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 28
time and effort it takes to complete the reporting process and will encourage
providers to participate. Communicating the opportunity for providers themselves
to have access to accurate information for referrals and other purposes could
serve as an incentive to participate. Reminding providers that timely reporting of
accurate data will also benefit them as consumers will be accessing this
information as they select services and locations. Any new directory effort should
not create additional requirements but rather streamline the submission and
updating of data.
Finally, we urge the deployment of a modern computing approach (perhaps block
chain) to collect not only information CMS needs but also what the private sector
needs in a way that reduces how many questions providers are asked (or how
many times they have to make updates).
• Health Plans: Health plans (and programs) under the Agency’s direct regulatory
control can be the first to participate in the NHCD. Requiring NHCD participation
from these entities will be an important step in creating legitimacy in the NHCD and
would serve as an additional incentive for providers to report their data. CMS
should also explore opportunities to incentivize Medicare Advantage plans to
participate in the NHCD.
Commercial health plans could have very specific provider information
requirements such as identifying exactly which location a provider is offering
specific services covered under a benefit plan. Even if a health plan was to
leverage the NHCD to populate its directory, the plan may still be required to reach
out to their providers to obtain and then verify additional information.
Understanding these challenges, we believe that for commercial health plans to
utilize the NHCD there must be a clear return on investment (ROI). To establish
this ROI, we recommend CMS work with one or more commercial health plans to
pilot test use of the NHCD data as a replacement to its proprietary database. The
results from this pilot could serve as an incentive for other commercial health plans
to use the NHCD for their directories.
• Public health entities: The incentive for public health entities to participate in the
NHCD is clear-the receipt of more timely and accurate data. To encourage those
public health entities that are not under the regulatory control of CMS, value of the
NHCD and the benefits afforded to them by accessing accurate NHCD must be
clearly communicated.
• Vendors and clearinghouses. Vendors, including API developers and those
assisting providers and health plans meet their directory requirements, as well as
clearinghouses that operate in the directory space should be included in any
NHCD outreach efforts. Although they will have a commercial interest in the
NHCD, they may still require technical information on how to both report data on
behalf of their clients and leverage NHCD data for their products.
Once operational, the NHCD should be evaluated on a regular basis for its impact on
targeted stakeholders. For example, consumers, specifically underserved and

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 29
disadvantaged populations, should be regularly surveyed for their knowledge of and use
of the NHCD. Similarly, providers should be surveyed regularly for their knowledge of the
NHCD, level of burden providers face in entering, updating, and accessing their
information. Providers should be asked to rate the level of burden required to enter NHCD
data compared to the burden required to enter commercial health plan directory data.
Importantly, it will be critical to determine the ROI for health plans to access and use
provider directory information. Should it prove cost efficient for a health plan to leverage
NHCD data to populate its provider directories compared to its current approach, that
information could incentivize other health plans to take advantage of the NHCD.
Centralization and standardization of provider data collection and effective dissemination
of that data has the potential of adding utility for all stakeholders seeking to access
provider information and reducing burden for those reporting the data. As we have
discussed, to achieve the benefits outlined in this RFI it will be critical to appropriately
incentivize those individuals and organizations that the Agency is encouraging or
requiring to report data.
Providers included in the NHCD
To ensure the maximum utility of the NHCD it will be important to include as many
providers and organization types as possible. Allied health professionals, post-acute care
providers, dentists, emergency medical services, nurse practitioners, physician
assistants, certified nurse midwives, providers of dental, vision, and hearing care,
behavioral health providers (psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, licensed professional
counselors, and licensed clinical social workers are all potential billing providers and
should be included in the NHCD. However, there needs to be considerations for different
provider types. It is unlikely that the data required for one type of provider is going to align
or be appropriate to all others. We urge the Agency to work with provider professional
associations to determine the minimum data requirements for each provider type.
Further, including organizations such as pharmacies, public health entities, community
organizations, and nursing facilities would also be valuable both for consumers of health
care and providers of health care. It would also be helpful to include in the NHCD
suppliers of health care such as durable medical equipment. Finally, as the industry
adopts the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement and associated
Qualified Health Information Networks, it would be valuable to both consumers and
providers to include these and other types of health information networks in the NHCD.
We also urge CMS to explore including “atypical providers” in the NHCD. These would be
organizations who, for example, build wheelchair ramps for consumers, beneficiaries, and
others. We note that these atypical providers as well as allied providers may have little
experience with reporting to centralized data repositories and CMS may need to conduct
outreach to these communities to educate them on the NHCD.
While adding these allied and affiliated provider entities will be beneficial, we recommend
that CMS initially focus on capturing information from the core set of providers, with
outreach to these allied and affiliated providers conducted in a later stage.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 30
Including additional information
We believe it would be beneficial to consumers to include in the NHCD provider
languages spoken other than English, specific office accessibility features for patients
with disabilities and/or limited mobility, accessible examination or medical diagnostic
equipment. We also note that consumers may find it helpful to know if staff at provider
offices support languages other than English.
We do recommend CMS explore the option of including provider telehealth capabilities in
the NHCD. For many consumers, knowing that the provider presents the option of a
virtual visit could be an extremely important factor for consumers that may face
transportation challenges or live a long distance from a provider office. We do recognize,
however, that establishing a provider’s ability to support telehealth will have its
challenges-establishing the type of technology supported, if telehealth be supported at
each of the provider’s locations, what specific services are supported by telehealth, and
whether a patient’s health benefits include telehealth services.
FHIR Endpoints
With the large number of health plans and health plan products in the marketplace, a
critical element for API success will be the ability of providers to quickly and accurately
identity a specific FHIR endpoint. We urge CMS ASTP/ONC to work with industry to
include endpoints in a NHSD or stand up a FHIR Endpoint Directory that is freely
accessible by all health plans and providers.
Potential use of an NHCD
There are numerous potential use cases for the NHCD, including providers exchanging
data to streamline the referral process, to promote care management programs, to
support value-based care arrangements, and improve public health reporting. Currently, it
is common that providers share patient data manually, either by printing the information
and having the patient hand deliver it, using postal mail, or faxing the information. Having
access to information such as Direct email addresses and FHIR-end points could facilitate
automated data exchange.
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted a need for public health systems to be better
connected to providers and with each other. A robust NHCD that includes public health
entities has the potential of offering a centralized approach to public health reporting for
providers-thus decreasing the administrative burden associated with submitting data. We
recommend CMS work with provider groups and public health entities to develop a
reporting process that best meets the needs of each stakeholder group. In addition,
centralizing the data collection ensures that CMS, in concert with other federal and state
public health authorities, will be in a better position to analyze the data received and take
appropriate actions based on that data.
Health plan access
For the NHCD to significantly decrease the burden associated with provider reporting it
will be critical for commercial health plans to have access the NHCD to populate their
directories. To achieve this goal commercial health must be incentivized to use the NHCD
for at least some of their data requirements. We recommend CMS explore health plan
incentive options that would include: (i) Creating a safe harbor from any directory

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 31
accuracy-related enforcement action for any plan that utilizes NHCD data to populate
their directories; (ii) Establishing a clear ROI for a health plans to leverage NHCD data by
conducting a pilot and publicly sharing the results; and (iii) Establishing that the quality
and validity of the provider information captured in the NHCD is as good or better than the
plan’s current directory.
Addressing waste, fraud, and abuse
A potential use case of the NHCD to help prevent fraud, waste, abuse, and improper
payments would be to more accurately identify unauthorized individuals and entities
before they are enrolled into government or commercial health plans. Understanding this,
if the NHCD is to combat fraud, waste, abuse, and improper payments, it will be critical to
institute an effective verification process to minimize the chance that an unauthorized
individual or entity is accepted into the directory.
Cybersecurity
In terms of privacy breaches, a centralized database as opposed to multiple proprietary
provider databases of provider information could potentially decrease the likelihood of a
breach, should the centralized database have appropriate security measures in place. We
recommend that CMS deploy comprehensive and sophisticated cybersecurity policies
and technologies to minimize the chance that the NHCD will experience a data breach.
Additional NHCD use cases
Additional use cases, such as licensing, certification, or credentialing should not be
considered in the initial phase of the NHCD development. CMS should also review
current industry solutions in these use case areas and explore opportunities to align the
NHCD with these efforts. In addition, we believe it may be helpful to identify providers and
health systems who participate in value-based care arrangements/alternative payment
models. As well, identifying providers and health systems that are conducting clinical trials
and/or hosting a training or residency program may also be beneficial. However, these
may be data points to be captured in later phases of NHCD development.
Frequency and method of data updates
The general consensus from the WEDI membership was that providers should be
required to update the majority of their NHCD information no more frequently than on a
quarterly basis. However, certain data may require more timely updates. For example,
when a provider leaves a location, when a provider joins an organization, and changes to
locations where providers practice should be updated more frequently. Also, licensure
and credentialing information that has changed should be updated on a more frequent
basis. We also asked our members what the cadence should be for CMS to update the
NHCD data requirements (based on new legislative, regulatory and other requirements).
The consensus was that CMS should update the NHCD reporting requirements on not
less than a yearly basis. We also recommend CMS permit multiple reporting approaches.
For example, the NHCD should accommodate batch uploads, submissions from third-
party vendors and clearinghouses, and receive data feeds from verified sources that
already collect provider information.
We also note that an alternative to a “centralized data hub” is a decentralized approach
where the NHCD functions as a network of public and private sector entities including

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 32
providers, health plans, public health agencies, state organizations and other constituents
utilizing federated data management enabled by a common utility layer. This could also
encompass data location and workflow orchestration services, as well as enforcement of
common rules and processes for data contribution, updates and access. As a result, the
paradigm of the NHCD changes from a “single source of truth” to a connected and
distributed single source of truth and mitigates the risk of the NHCD becoming just one
more federal database.
In addition, technologies such as Blockchain should be considered to provide capabilities
for transparency, immutability and traceability for data management. Blockchain is
potentially a great enabler of community-based collaboration with a high-level of privacy
and security.
Submitting data
Organizations should be permitted to delegate NHCD reporting. Delegation of reporting is
permitted in PECOS and by many commercial health plans. However, organizations not
only should identify the delegated individual(s) but also work with CMS to verify that the
individual(s) are permitted to report on behalf of the organization.
We note that role-based access management (RBAM) is a mechanism for restricting
access to systems. Allowing administrators to define permissions for authorized users,
many organizations use RBAM to provide varying levels of access based on an
individual’s role and responsibility. This process can protect sensitive data, while giving
the individual the access they need to perform their task. CMS can apply this principle to
the NHCD by defining a specific set of permissions that apply to a certain type of NHCD
user. Thus, permission would not be granted directly to a user, but rather to a specific
role. Users can be added or removed from their NHCD roles according to the
requirements.
We also recommend CMS explore leveraging appropriate vendors and clearinghouses to
serve as intermediaries for bulk data verification and upload or submission to an NHCD.
Many of these entities currently serve this function for providers and health plan clients.
Reviewing and verifying data
We believe one method to resolve duplicate or conflicting information reported from
different sources is to have the provider themselves review and correct the information.
Another option is to leverage outside data sources to resolve duplicate or conflicting
information. We also urge CMS to ensure it establishes one point of contact per
organization to minimize the chance of duplicating data entries.
It will be critical to verify provider information such as address and phone number for
consumers, providers, and health plans. It will also be important to verify digital addresses
such as email addresses and endpoints for providers and health plans. Validation through
use of third-party data sources should also be considered. We recommend a three-step
validation process. The first step is to verify that the data reported is a valid data set and
conforms to the reporting fields (i.e., the address reported by the provider includes zip
code). Second, the information should be validated through a primary source. For
example, if the provider lists the medical school they attended, that information should be

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 33
verified with the medical school itself. Finally, where applicable, verification should involve
the appropriate relationship. For example, if the provider reports they have medical
privileges at an institution, that institution should verify that relationship.
Technical standards
CMS, especially when the NHCD is launched, should support multiple standards and data
reporting formats. Uploads via APIs, online portals, excel files, word files, and faxing
options should all be offered to ensure that all reporting entities, regardless of their
technical capabilities, can be accommodated. At the same time, the Agency should offer
tutorials and technical assistance to those reporting entities that wish to transition from
manual to, for example, FHIR-based automated reporting.
Pilot testing
Pilot testing of the various functionalities of the NHCD will be critical to its success. It will
be important to have providers, health plans, and others test data submission and data
access functions and report back to the CMS to allow for improvements to be made to the
NHCD and ensure maximum usability. We also recommend creating an ongoing process
to allow users of the NHCD to supply feedback on how to improve functionality.
Accessing the NHCD
To maximize the utility of the NHCD for providers, the information should be accessible
directly in the provider’s workflow, via their EHR. We anticipate EHR software developers
will incorporate supporting API technology into their systems, therefore permitting end
users to leverage this technology to access NHCD data.
In addition, an increasing number of patients are accessing information related to the
delivery of their health care via apps through their phone or tablets. We urge CMS to
meet patients where they are and offer app developers the opportunity to develop
solutions that meet the needs of their consumers. We anticipate that apps that leverage
NHCD data will be developed to serve specific consumers. For example, an app may be
created that lists by geographic region all providers that speak a specific language. This
potentially would be a important tool for patients, especially those in underserved and
disadvantaged communities.
At the same time, appropriate security protocols must be in place to minimize the
potential for unauthorized access and use of NHCD data. We recommend CMS follow
industry best practices for securing NHCD as it is reported, maintained or transmitted.
Implementation phases
We believe that CMS should implement a phased approach to the development of the
NHCD to build stakeholder trust and adoption. We recommend the following approach:
• Convene industry stakeholders, including consumers, providers, health plans,
vendors, other appropriate organizations, to discuss needs, requirements,
capabilities, timelines, and other issues.
• Assess state and local level as well as private sector provider data collection
initiatives to determine if opportunities exist to learn from their experiences and

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 34
leverage these data sources.
• Review existing public and private sector provider information databases to
determine if harmonization and/or alignment is appropriate.
• Develop an NHCD prototype and solicit feedback from industry stakeholders and
data requirements, reporting interface, ease-of-use, and other factors.
• Pilot test the NHCD with a wide variety of consumers, provider types, and health
plans.
• Stage the implementation of the NHCD and continuously incorporate feedback
from users.
• Conduct outreach throughout this entire development process outreach with each
impacted industry sector, including consumers, providers, health plans, vendors
and clearinghouses, to answer questions, hear concerns, and build trust in the
process and final product.
We also recommend that CMS focus initially on use cases related to provider reporting to
those federal health plans and programs under direct CMS regulatory control. As CMS
can compel these entities to participate, there would be established an immediate benefit
to providers for participating and would build trust and confidence in the process.
Additional use cases can be explored once the industry has experience reporting federal
plan and program data to the NHCD and utilizing NHCD data.
Finally, we urge the Agency to use human-centered design to optimize the usability of the
NHCD. Human-centered design is characterized by six key principles that highlight the
importance of centering the end user: (i) Understand end users and stakeholders; (ii)
Engage with end users and stakeholders throughout; (iii) Test and revise solutions based
on end user and stakeholder feedback; (iv) Iterate; (v) Consider entire experience; (vi)
Collaborate across disciplines. CMS should employ these principles as it develops the
NHCD. We strongly recommend CMS engage with impacted stakeholders all throughout
the NHCD development process to ensure that end-user experience, whether reporting
data or accessing data, is streamlined, efficient, and effective.
Conclusion
The issues included in the RFI represent a critical step forward in realizing the vision
outlined by policymakers in the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act of 2016. We encourage
you to work with WEDI should additional industry input on regulatory provisions be
needed and to identify opportunities to educate impacted entities. As a statutory advisor
to the HHS Secretary and a multi-stakeholder organization, WEDI offers a unique
structure for cross-industry collaboration.

Secretary Kennedy
J une 16, 2025
Page 35
We appreciate the opportunity to share our perspective regarding the issues included in
this RFI. We hope our perspectives and recommendations will serve to assist CMS and
ASTP/ONC as it moves forward with important health IT initiatives. Please contact Robert
Tennant, WEDI Executive Director, at rtennant@WEDI.org with any questions on these
comments and recommendations.
Sincerely,
/s/
Merri-Lee Stine
Chair, WEDI
cc: WEDI Board of Directors