SPEND MORE TIME
Helping HCOs like yours add WHO’S MRG RIGHT FOR?
$120,000+ annually in net profit
CARING FOR YOUR
and improve patient outcomes
PATIENTS
WITHOUT WORKING MORE HOURS
Practices with 500+ Clinics with too many Providers that want to
No upfront costs No long-term contracts patients in EMR with one or patients, not enough time, grow their practice and
more chronic disease and staffing shortages improve patient experience
No staff or office space required
1,500 $50,000
Chronic care patients Created in profitable revenue
onboarded within 90 days within 6 months
SPECIALTIES WE SERVE
WITH QUALIFIED CARE TEAMS
Primary Care Mental Health
90%+ 80%
Internal Pulmonology
Medicine
Patient adoption rate Patient adherence Pain
and less than 5% cancellations and compliance for billing Gastroenterology Management
Cardiology Allergy
and Asthma
Endocrinology
Their clinical call center services & care team staff has
made a huge impact on engaging with patients to direct
them in for an office visit or enroll them into the health &
wellness care coordination program. I highly recommend
any private practice doctor that has chronically ill
patients to MRG Health - Smart Care 360.
You deserve to build a thriving
and sustainable practice
— Dr. Valeska Balderas
Texas Gastroenterology Institute Scan the QR code to schedule a FREE practice
revenue assessment.
Give your front office staff the support they
need to care for chronically ill patients and
improve health outcomes with MRG virtual
care management.
www.mrghealth.com www.mrghealth.com 1-855-MRG-5333 support@mrghealth.com www.mrghealth.com 1-855-MRG-5333 support@mrghealth.com

Why MRG?
Because it: Now imagine what you could do
when you don’t have to:
✓ Adds $15,000/mo in profit for every
400 patients ✓ Feel rushed seeing 40+ patients per
✓ Grows your practice without working day
more hours ✓ Fight lower reimbursement rates
✓ Tracks patient compliance & clinical ✓ Jump through billing hoops to get
outcomes paid
✓ Monitors and triages non-compliant ✓ Worry about staffing issues
patients
✓ Feel stressed and burned out
✓ Invests over $200k in IT, staffing,
software, and devices into your
practice at no cost to you
✓ Gives you time and freedom to run 01 02 03 04
your practice
PATIENT VIRTUAL CARE IT & CALL CENTER PATIENT BILLING
ONBOARDING MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE AND COLLECTIONS
What’s Your Once MRG is set up in your practice, all you have to do
is review non-compliant patient charts and watch your
Commitment?
practice grow. Yes…it’s that easy. Give your staff back the time
Take the headache out of Get a fully informed care Help more patients get well
they need so they can support
onboarding and managing care team that gives your patients with virtual care without the
your practice and stop chasing
coordination of chronic care the support they need while cost and hassle of building the
reimbursements. MRG will:
patients. We’ll help you identify decreasing your operational infrastructure on your own. With
your qualified patients and: burden. MRG will: MRG, you get: ✓ Generate patient billing and transmit
claims
The tech and the team ✓ Verify their insurance ✓ Onboard a fully trained care team ✓ A comprehensive RPM/CCM
✓ Perform a health and risk assessment ✓ Create SDOH and disease specific telehealth software ✓ Remediate denials and perform
you need to build collections
✓ Enroll patients in disease specific educational programs ✓ Call center qualified staff and
a successful practice care via SmartCare 360 platform ✓ Perform monthly patient outreach software ✓ Facilitate payments
✓ Provide patients training and support ✓ Monitor patient charts, compliance, ✓ EMR integration ✓ Provide hardship programs for
underserved
and clinical outcomes ✓ Digital audit trail
Here’s what’s
included with MRG