AI-guided Patient Intake Explore how AI streamlines pre-visit medical history intake, enhancing provider productivity and patient outcomes 
Transforms Patient Histories Transforming patient intake with AI-powered , evidence - based solutions that streamline medical history capture and workflow efficiency for hospitals and clinics 
Precise Information, Fast The intelligent platform delivers a faster, more efficient workflow for providers and a convenient patient experience with shorter wait times . FACT: MDs using SmartCare360 save 25 -50% of the time typically spent on documentation, enabling more focus on patient care and outcomes 
Integrates Easily Generates a detailed and editable medical note. Seamless integration with ECW , Cerner , Epic , and expanding to more EMRs everyday. 
Standardizes Data Capture Effortlessly captures detailed information. Boosts reimbursement and compliance (eg. Social Determinants of Health (SDOH) and other CMS codes. 
SmartCare360 Addresses Real - World Issues Increasing Patient Volumes: Healthcare providers are under pressure to see more patients due to growing demand, leading to longer hours and potential burnout. Administrative Burden: Clinicians spend significant time on non -clinical tasks like documentation, coding, and billing, reducing time for patient care. Fragmented Data: Patient information is often scattered across multiple systems, making it difficult to access and integrate data for informed decision -making. 
Improved Productivity Outcomes & Quality Addressing issues like increasing patient volumes, administrative burn out and fragmented data is crucial to improving productivity, reducing clinician burnout, and delivering high -quality patient care. FACT: SmartCare360 Patients love us: + 90% patient satisfaction score 
SmartCare360 Solution Our adaptive, AI-guided pre-visit interview modules collect highly relevant information for clinicians, digitizing the process. FACT: SmartCare360 can have your clinic up and running in less than 24 hours. 
Not a form Not a Chatbot Not a form or chatbot; we’ve codified the physician’s “brain”; by leveraging advanced computing. Output informs triage, coding, and data -informed medical care. 
How Does it Work? Clinic sends text message, patient answers adaptive questions, EMR receives synopsis. Synopsis is a detailed medical history; with scores, EB tools to support GDMT, triage. Text message sent to patient with link to complete medical historyPatient completes web -based adaptive SmartCare360 intakeClinician reviews structured SmartCare360 intake in their EMR 
Instant Value Informs care delivery & navigation , enhances workflows , provides evidence - based data sets , and resource management. 
Growing Global Reach & Impact Clients in US, Canada , and Middle East ; growing SME network , telehealth platforms , hospitals , demonstrated value and efficiencies in Virtual Care 
SmartCare 360 Value 
Saves Clinicians Time 60-80% of a visit is entering patient data MDs using SmartCare360 save time ( 25 -50%) 5 minutes saved per patient (average) 
Make GDMT Easy 13% of HF patients get the medications they need for GDMT SmartCare360 highlights if patients are on track Identifies personalized GDMT optimization Visual cues flag important gaps 
Reduce Costs & Boost Revenue $125 Billion lost every year due to inaccurate billing & coding Passive data capture Improve accuracy , completeness Demonstrate compliance with CMS standards 
Enhance Clinician Time Frees MDs to focus on clinical. Enhanced ability to evaluate, analyze, and plan patient diagnostics and treatment. Reduced MD burnout. 
Structured Clinical History Note Easy to read medical notes that convert the patient story into a concise, standard layout. Generated pre -visit Reduces errors in medication profiles Interoperable with any system 
Advanced Technology Leverage advanced technologies to enhance patient experience, and MDs ability to deliver better quality care. Ai-driven efficiency Reduced redundancy, data consistency Smart data filtering Patient -centric interface 
Broad Clinical Coverage Most extensive and adaptable library of history questions. Customizable for any specialty or clinical setting. Incorporates clinical filters and tools to speed diagnosis and care. 11,000+ History Questions 
Automation Automate patient intake and clinical workflows to increase efficiency, information sharing, collaboration, and productivity. Optimized coding, billing. Improved patient outcomes. Enhanced compliance. 
Structured Data Capture a broad and deep spectrum of structured patient data while accommodating individual preferences. Enhanced decision -making. Improved care coordination. Data -driven insights. 
Data Sharing Standardized process for collecting structured medical history data for sharing across the primary and subspecialty care teams. Improved care continuity. Enhanced clinical collaboration. Optimized resource use and triage. Accelerated innovation. 
Patient Insights Accurate patient insights, proven accuracy, informs personalized care for better outcomes 90%+ satisfaction Patients feel their story has been heard Patients spend less than 5 minutes to complete digital history. Improves patient -MD communication. 
Integration & Interoperability Open APIs allow for seamless data flow Scalable across networks, platforms Wide integration capacity reduces costs Future -proofing, easily adapts to evolving technology with Agile processes 
Available in Multiple Languages Histories are available in English, Spanish, French and Arabic Growing number of languages – ask us! 
Mental Health - Focused Histories Mental Health medical histories provide you with best -in-class documentation. Provides comprehensive picture of symptoms, experience of treatment. Simplifies medication management. Tracks compliance , improves patient engagement. Evidence -based scores identify conditions and risks early, improving recognition. 
Medical History at your Fingertips Note is available in your patient file/EMR. Flexible, modifiable history content. MDs have immediate access to Note. Personalized care planning easier. Enhanced patient safety: medications, allergy profile 
The ROI Saves 25 -50% of visit time, enhancing overall efficiency and reducing cost24/7 Support DeskNo training, SmartCare360 can be learned in minutes. Web based no app to install or configure Provides new data sets for analysis, optimizing treatment plans and decision making Improves patient preparedness and satisfaction with medical visits 
Benefits to Your Organization 25-50% improved efficiency Easier process, less burnout Decreases documentation burden Higher quality patient interactions 
SmartCare360 Filters Smart filters for: Clinical trial eligibility GDMT compliance Capture of CMS codes 
Screens for Social Determinants of Health ( SDoH ) ICD-10 Codes that capture SDoH are fully covered by the SmartCare360 primary care intake. FACT: Time to capture SDoH with SmartCare360 = 0 minutes 
Enhancing GDMT Compliance and Tracking Real -time capture. Automated, complete documentation vs. Standards. Easier recognition of GDMT in patient history. 