Medical Histories, Transformed
Knowledge-based medical interview solution helping patients communicate their medical
histories to the healthcare team.
How It Works
PATIENT GETS LINK PATIENT INTAKE CLINICIAN REVIEWS
Text message is sent Patient completes web-based Clinician reviews structured
to patient with link to adaptive SmartCare360 intake SmartCare360 intake in their
complete a history (3-5 minutes per history) EMR
Benefits
CLINICIANS PATIENTS
Increases efficiency, saves time Patients are prepared for
Improves documentation quality interview and feel heard by
Reduces medical errors healthcare team
Improves quality of care Improves patient experience
Satisfaction score: 4.7 out of 5
Empowers dialogue
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM DATA
Standardizes care 100% real-time patient
Structures data for actionable generated symptom data
insights and better outcomes Insights for population
Increases patient throughput health, predictive
Improves reimbursement and modeling, trials, heat maps,
financial outcomes precision medicine
Facilitates patient navigation
and orchestration

Why SmartCare360?
Adaptive AI-guided Medical Interviews Efficient Automated Workflows
Provide comprehensive patient medical Automate patient inta ke and clinical
histories for over 900 chief complaints. workflows to increase efficiency, information
sharing, collaboration, and productivity
Precise Evidence-based Histories among care teams.
Patient medical histories based on most
recent best practices and expert opinion. Improve Patient Experience
Patients complete intake online befor e the
appointment, reducing wait time s and
Comprehensive
improving engagement, satisfaction, and the
Collect all patient information, including HPI,
overall patient experience.
past medical history, allergies, medications,
social determinants of health, functional
status, and more. Inform Care & Navigation
In-depth patient history insights with proven
Locally Customizable accuracy, informing personalized care for
Configure from our evidence-based content better outcomes.
library, or add questions on the fly to meet
your unique practice needs.
Multilingual
English, Spanish, French, Arabic and new
languages being added on a regular basis.
Guideline Directed Medical Therapy Who We Are
Support GDMT techniques and evidence-
based best practices in clinical care. SmartCare360 provides a knowledge-based
patient intake solution to hospitals and
Calculators & Risk Scores clinics. The AI-guided application allows
Pose questions and collect data to calculate
patients to record their medical histories,
risk scores and other measures.
before their appointment which is shared
with the healthcare team.
Excellent Patient Experience
97% patient satisfaction ratings and very high
completion rates, typically over 90%. The intelligent platform delivers a faste mr,ore
efficient workflow for providers and
AI that Illuminates, Not Hallucinates
a convenient patient experience with
Our AI technology does not hallucinate,
shorter wait times.
providing comprehensive and precise data for
analytics and actionable insights.
Schedule a demo today.
smartcare360.co | Kyle@MRGHealth.com or 1-855-MRG-5333

Frequently Asked Questions
What is the SmartCare360 (cid:32) Do I have to build the medical Customizable for
platform histories myself?
any specialty
The SmartCare360 platform is a
SmartCare360 comes ready to use
knowledge-based medical history-
with a prebuilt library of evidence- Including:
taking application that enables
based, best-practice questions
patients to record their medical
across a wide range of specialties. Allergy Care
histories on a smartphone, tablet,
We build comprehensive and
or desktop. The medical history, Cardiology
precise medical histories, including
formatted as a note, can be used
social determinants of health, so Clinical Trials
by the care team prior to the visit.
you don’t have to. Dermatology
Endocrinology
(cid:32) How does SmartCare360
integrate into clinical workflow? My practice is unique. Can I
Gastroenterology
customize SmartCare360 to my Medication Management
SmartCare360 can be seamlessly
specific needs? Menopausal Care
integrated into your EMR or virtual
care platform. The report will be Medical histories are completely Mental Health
ready for your clinical team to use customizable to your specifications. Nursing
when and where they need it. Add or remove questions on the fly
Ophthalmology
to meet the needs of your unique
Optometry
practice and patient population. The
application can be branded with Orthopedics
Is SmartCare360 secure?
your organization name and logo.
Otolaryngology (ENT)
Privacy and security are a key(cid:32)
Pediatrics
priority. The cloud-based(cid:32)
Pharmacy
platform is HIPAA compliant and(cid:32)
complies with all relevant privacy(cid:32) Does SmartCare360 provide Primary Care
and security regulations.(cid:32)
data and analytics? Pulmonology
Additional information is(cid:32)
Rheumatology
available upon request. SmartCare360 provides
comprehensive reports that are Urgent Care
viewable in our dashboard. All Virtual Care
When does the patient data can be exported to other
Women’s Health
complete their history? applications as needed.
Oncology (coming soon)
A patient can complete their
history at any time—when
booking their appointment, at a
Schedule a
scheduled time before the visit, or
at a walk-in visit. The patient demo today.
receives an email or text with a
link to complete their medical smartcare360.co |
history online via a smartphone, Kyle@MRGHealth.com
tablet, or desktop.
or 1-855-MRG-5333