How To Get Started
SMART
Don't worry about complicated processes or SMART
confusing technology! The Smart Care 360 team _ARE360
ARE360
will help you get started and get a customized care
~
plan with good old fashioned customer service.
You Can Afford
Our Process Smart Care 360!
Getting started with Smart Care 360 is EASY!
O
Covered by Medicaid,
Medicare & Tricare
Meet your team.
Risk Charts
es)
Pay ONLY
your copay
nsIng TISk
•
• laii/ isk
Determine your needs hirer r sk
and set smart goals.
Get Started
•
• Set up your care plan.
•
••
• • , MORE
Scan this code to have one of our
COMPREHENSIVE
patient and friendly team
Connect with us
members explain how it works.
from anywhere. CARE FOR LESS COST
• • • • • •
.
Easily manage your health anytime,
1-855-MRG-5333
anywhere with our customized online
www.smartcare360.co services.
Enjoy a better
quality of life.

Health and Wellness Content
What is Smart Care 360?
CPI From custom content based on your
specific illness to nutritional recipes and
Smart Care 360 is an online platform that partners
health risk assessments, we offer the
with your physician to make world-class healthcare
knowledge you need to live better.
available on-demand, virtually or in person. By
customizing our many resources to your specific
Chronic Disease Management
conditions and needs, we simplify the process of
Access specialists and customize your care
managing your chronic diseases, accessing a
plan and your health team to simplify
doctor whenever you need it, and being proactive
managing your chronic conditions.
about preventative healthcare. Requiring little
effort, offering 24/7 support, and charging you
Patient Care Portal
nothing more than your copay, our platform is the
Use your personalized portal to check in
easiest way to keep you and your family healthy.
digitally for in-person appointments,
schedule appointments online, talk to your
providers, check lab results, and more!
Wearables Integration
) We can communicate with wearables like
FitBits and Apple Watches to get a better
view of what's going on inside your body.
• 24/7 On-Demand Support Why Use Smart Care 360?
‘..) Manage your health, and stay on top of our
system, on your schedule, day or night!
Improved Access to Healthcare
No more waiting in long lines at the doctor's office.
No more waiting for a phone call with your test
2-Way Text Online
Smart Care 360 Features F Ao lell ro tsw -Up Messaging Scheduling C Aso sp ia sy ta nce Sre msu al rt ts C. N aro
e
m 36o 0re
p
w uta si t ain hg
e
t ao
lt
hh ce aa rr
e
f r to em
am
y ,o ru er
s
up lr to s,v aid ne dr .
Experience our new personalized health and S Me ec su sr ae g ing D Chig ei cta kl - In appointments at your fingertips.
wellness platform with programs and resources from
the comfort of your own home and beyond. With the Telehealth & On-Demand Information
Video Reminders
smartest technology and our dedication to old Conferencing Learn more about your chronic condition, get tips for
fashioned patient support, you get the best managing it, keep up with a personalized exercise
treatment you've ever experienced. R P Mae om t nie io tn ote t r ing I Vn es ru ifr ia cn ac tie o n routine, stay on top of your nutrition, and HAVE FUN
with educational content accessible 24/7.
Doctor Appointments Anywhere ¤
Remote Patient
Connect with your doctor virtually on your Therapeutic Intake Lower Healthcare Costs
Monitoring
schedule, anywhere that is convenient for Just pay your regular copay - and we can even help
II
you. you pay that if you suffer from financial hardship!
RLo ey wa alt ry d s& P rogram S Suy rm vep yto s m
Personal Health Team Personalized Care
Health coaches, nutrition coaches, care E Cd ou nc tea nti to nal CP aa rt eie Pnt o rtal We customize your services, educational content,
01,(cid:9) coordinators and more provide virtual and exercise regimens, provider portal, healthcare team
Care Plan Personalized
in-person assistance with maintaining your Tasks Imaging & Care Team Care Plans and more to your specific conditions and needs.
Lab Results Surveys
health and wellness.