VIA ONLINE PORTAL
February 13, 2026
Michael Lipinski
Office of Policy
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
RE: Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: ASTP/ONC Deregulatory Actions
to Unleash Prosperity
45 CFR Parts 170 and 171
RIN: 0955-AA09
Dear Mr. Lipinski:
Citizens’ Council for Health Freedom (CCHF) submits this comment to the above-
referenced proposed rule. CCHF is a 501(c)(3) organization and, for over two decades,
has fought to restore the mission of medicine by protecting doctor and patient freedom.
CCHF provides valuable resources, policy research, and unique initiatives.
CCHF supports the rule’s decisive shift away from heavy federal micromanagement
toward competition-driven innovation in health IT and supports the rule to the extent that
the rule accomplishes the following:
1. REDUCES REGULATORY COMPLIANCE: Cuts regulatory compliance costs
and allows market forces—not federal checklists—to shape technology
adoption and acknowledges that health care markets do not require
prescriptive regulation to enforce baseline functionality.
2. ENHANCES CONSUMER CHOICE: Emphasizes consumer choice and
innovation, enabling providers to select tools that best meet their needs rather
than those optimized for certification.
3. FOSTERS COMPETITION: Recognizes that innovation, AI integration, and
efficiency are better driven by consumer-oriented competition than by federal
micromanagement.
4. PROPERLY ALLOCATES RESOURCES: Shifts resources from regulatory
compliance toward patient care, product development, and cost-saving
innovation.
CCHF | 161 Rondo Avenue, Suite 923 | St. Paul, MN 55103 | 651-646-8935 | www.cchfreedom.org
Protecting patient and doctor freedom Since 1998

5. REVERSES CONSOLODATION: Generates substantial long-term savings
and expands consumer-driven health care markets, reversing the concerning
trend of health market conglomerate consolidation.
Conversely, CCHF is apprehensive regarding the relaxation of health IT regulation in
health care, especially novel AI technology, for the following reasons:
1. PRIVACY INTRUSIONS: Patient privacy and care must remain a top priority
for the health care markets; it remains to be seen how less IT regulation and
the use of AI will advance these priorities.
2. HIPAA: The HIPAA rule, properly understood, is a data security rule rather than
a privacy rule. It permits confidential patient data to be shared broadly without
patient consent by “covered entities.” Other laws and rules require
interoperability, thus mandating the use of digital networks, frameworks,
Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreements (TEFCA), electronic
health records, clinical data platforms, qualified health information networks
(QHINs), and other technologies without patient consent—while requiring that
the data be shielded from unauthorized access. AI will have access to this
data, also without patient consent, for purposes the patient may not
support, and potentially to directly impact the patient’s care in ways that
could be harmful, insufficient, or generated through AI hallucinations.
3. ALGORITHMS: AI can be exploited in the health care market; several class-
action lawsuits are pending against large insurers, alleging the inappropriate
use of algorithms to deny Medicare Advantage and other claims.
4. HARM TO PATIENTS: The misuse of AI in health care markets will likely deny
necessary care, cause patient harm, and increase costs.
5. LIMITING ACCESS TO CARE: AI and patient data are used to manipulate and
control physician treatment decisions, limit treatments to a pre-set menu of
corporate-determined treatment options populated on the EHR system, and
standardize treatment in a way that does not meet the needs of unique patients
at the biological, physiological, emotional, financial, genetic, and cultural levels.
Critically, this proposed rule omits a proposal to restore medical privacy rights to
patients that were eliminated under the federal HIPAA privacy rule (CFR sections 160
and 164). Restoring medical privacy has the added benefits of rebuilding patient trust,
fostering frank conversations at the bedside, improving history and physicals, promoting
patient-centered care, and reducing physician burnout caused by the current bureaucratic
reporting system and the ethical conflict of sharing private information with countless
outsiders without patient consent.
Warm Regards,
/s/ Allison R. Lucas
2
CCHF | 161 Rondo Avenue, Suite 923 | St. Paul, MN 55103 | 651-646-8935 | www.cchfreedom.org
Protecting patient and doctor freedom since 1998

Allison R. Lucas, J.D.
Director of Public Policy
Citizens’ Council for Health Freedom
allison@cchfreedom.org
3
CCHF | 161 Rondo Avenue, Suite 923 | St. Paul, MN 55103 | 651-646-8935 | www.cchfreedom.org
Protecting patient and doctor freedom since 1998