 June 15, 2025 Dr. Mehmet Oz Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Dr. Thomas Keane Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/ Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) (collectively, ASTP/ONC) Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Attention: CMS –0042–NC P.O. Box 8013 Baltimore, MD 21244 –8013 Dear Dr. Oz and Dr. Keane: Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the CMS modernization of the nation ’s digital health ecosystem for the purpose of em powering Medicare beneficiaries through innovative health technologies. Given the goal is to unlock the power of modern technology for seniors and their famil ies I recommend keeping the focus on patient access to data for sharing with providers staying vigilant of provider burden. I suggest the following: 1. Drive dev elopment and adopt ion – make the technol ogy so easy that any senior can use it. My parents struggle with blood pressure de vices, phone apps , and numerous passwords as they as traverse this modern age. Make the technology intuitive and easy to use and access so they can have the technology to wo rk for them. They are proficient with Facebook and yet, they cannot seem to stay in the ir numerous healthcare portals and links to gain care. A system where the patient owns their data and the provider ’s easily and secur ely connect and share the information with the patient—thus the patient at the center —might be more amenable to this type of system. I suggest a system such as patientlink . A workflow where the patient holds a digital key and they can have their providers push their individual patient data to them. Patients can sign up for sharing their data, hav ing their data used for registries, clinical research and public health. In the case where pa tients are not 
interested in owning their da ta, they could appoint a provider who can be the gatekeeper in a similar fashion as primary care providers often work. 2. Work toward s a system where data is shared at the data element level to ensure context remains. Having discrete data will unlock the data’s potential and provide a clear understanding of the greater picture . With that , consider connecting all existing standards each designed f or specific purposes to help us realize the Learning He alth System. This will enable digital tools, web, mobile, software applications and digital health applications to further connect and provide data to drive preventative care, disease management, and overarching health ma intenance. Analytics at the fi ngertips of pa tients, families , and their providers will help people to better manage their health. 3. Make the data exchange intuitive for all . There is a list of APIs in the RFI. Make it so easy and enticing that people cannot help but do it . Technology exists, the standards exist , it is a matter of connecting everything and ensuring a data pipeline with standards in a consistent way. Leverage HL7, IHE, DICOM, IEEE, CDISC, ISO, LOINC, S NOMED, ICD -10-CM and ICD -10-PSC, NCI Thesaurus (NCIt) Enterprise Vocabulary Ser vices (EVS) CDISC terminology for research , among other standards . 4. USCDI data elements are implemented in the US Core FHIR Implemen tation Gui de. Each USCD I data element version is then followed by another US Core FHIR Implementation Guide version. Leverage the NIH NCI EVS to define the data elements . Align the US Core FHIR IG with the International Pa tient Summary (IPS) FHIR IG which is used globally . People travel global ly and this will en able cross- border sharing and high-quality connected care for everyone. The aforementioned FHIR IGs are very similar; however, there are small differen ces that could benefit from alignment. Thank you for considering these su ggestions. If you w ould like further details, please contact me for more info rmation as I would be pleased to discuss my ideas further. Sincerely, Rebecca Ba ker, MS, MHA, BSN, RN 