February, 23 2026
The Honorable Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: RIN 0955-AA13
Submitted electronically to: http://www.regulations.gov
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) as Part of
Clinical Care
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane:
The National Association of ACOs (NAACOS) appreciates the opportunity to submit comments in
response to the request for information on Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
Part of Clinical Care. NAACOS is a member-led and member-governed nonprofit of nearly 500
accountable care organizations (ACOs) and value-based care entities in Medicare, Medicaid, and
commercial insurance working on behalf of health care providers across the nation to improve the
quality of care for patients and reduce health care cost. Collectively, our members are accountable for
the care of more than 10 million beneficiaries through Medicare’s population health-focused payment
and delivery models, including the Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) and the Accountable Care
Organization Realizing Equity, Access, and Community Health (ACO REACH) Model.
With responsibility for total cost of care and clinical outcomes, providers in accountable care
continuously seek tools that use data seamlessly, support patient engagement, and drive improvement
in clinical outcomes. AI holds such promise and we support innovation through the widespread adoption
of AI tools for clinical care; however, we are concerned that existing complex governance and regulatory
barriers, data and infrastructure challenges, and low returns on investment continue to hamper
progress. Our comments below reflect the shared goal of an AI technology-enabled interoperable health
care ecosystem, that fosters competition while shielding providers from undue burden.
Barriers to AI adoption and Use in Clinical Care
ACOs are exploring potential uses of AI with the goal of improving patient care and providing real-time
data and feedback at the point of care to inform clinical care. For example, some ACOs leverage AI for
risk stratification while others are deploying AI technologies that automate outreach to lower-risk
patients, extending care managers’ capacity for beneficiary engagement. While there are many potential
benefits to the use of AI, ACOs report that navigating through the compliance, legal, and internal
approval processes can be challenging and require building a new AI governance committee structure
that previously did not exist. In addition, they encounter challenges with integrating these tools into
electronic health record (EHR) products; however, the benefits outweigh the burden of implementation
2001 L Street, NW, Suite 500, Washington, D.C. 20036 ⚫ 202-640-1985 ⚫ info@naacos.com
www.naacos.com

February 23, 2026
Page 2 of 4
as these solutions are much more difficult for patients and providers to use if they run separately from
the EHR.
NAACOS encourages HHS to create avenues for providers to receive incentives or payment for
leveraging AI in clinical care. Currently, providers in alternative payment models (APMs) invest in these
technologies using shared savings achieved through model and advanced APM incentives, which are
received long after the performance year. Upfront incentives (i.e., pre-paid shared savings and
capitation options) have enabled providers to make more timely investments in technology, and any
incentive approach must ensure that these investments can be sustained. Beyond these options, HHS
should consider:
• Payment approaches to bill Medicare for the use of AI tools in clinical care. The recently
announced ACCESS Model provides payment for technology-enabled care but this model is not
an available option for providers who bill Medicare for other services. CMS could explore similar
technology-enabled payments for providers in an ACO to test approaches for paying providers
for technology-enabled care.
• Cost sharing arrangements between the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and
APMs, like the Medicaid State Systems where the federal government provides a percentage of
the cost. Additionally, HHS could sponsor group purchasing arrangements for these initiatives to
enable individual provider use of these solutions without needing individual contracting.
In any incentive approach, we encourage consideration of prior obstacles:
• Overcome provider and patient uncertainty. There is a need to demonstrate the use and value
of AI tools to both providers and patients, as patient and provider knowledge of products can be
limited. Patients and providers must also be educated on the benefits and risks of AI to ensure
that the resulting data are appropriately understood and used.
• Test approaches prior to adoption. There should be support for APM participants to test and
implement these technologies without suffering any consequences of technology failure, or
unforeseen consequences. For example, a testing lab invites APM participants to gain
experience with AI products before full scale implementation would help improve the tool and
incentivize long-term use.
• Avoid overly prescriptive approaches. In lieu of requiring any one technology or approach, CMS
should focus on achieving a particular outcome and allow APM participants the ability to adopt
technologies based on their patients’ and the organization’s needs and capabilities.
• Prevent an overabundance of data. There is the potential for duplicative and/or conflicting data
resulting from use of AI technologies. These new data streams could potentially overwhelm
practices. There must be limits on the type and amount of data that are sent to providers/care
teams so that they receive the information that is most relevant for clinical decision-making.
Regulatory and Policy Changes to Support AI Adoption
A uniform federal regulatory framework the use of AI in health care is imperative since the current
environment remains fragmented where regulations and requirements on vary significantly across
states. Coordination at the federal and state levels will further assist efforts to standardize the use of AI
in health care. This framework should include updates to the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy and security rules, as needed, to confirm that patient data resulting
from these AI tools are used responsibly. Safeguards must also be in place to foster innovation while

February 23, 2026
Page 3 of 4
also ensuring clear liability protections for providers. Additionally, there must be consideration for safe
and appropriate use of these tools by all providers including small, rural, and other entities for whom
these technologies may not be easily afforded and adopted.
National standards must be created for data quality, security, interoperability, and data accessibility,
including definitions, benchmarking tools, and other resources against which developers and
implementers can compare the various AI technologies. Standards that ensure transparency (e.g.,
disclosure of AI capabilities, limitations, monitoring) and the safe and effective use of AI must also be
established. Each of these standards will ensure that the results are safe, secure, and reduce potential
bias. In addition, federated AI learning modules should be leveraged to test and optimize these tools
while providers continue to retain ownership of the data. A database of validated datasets for AI
solutions would also facilitate greater explainability and confidence in their use. All these efforts can
also ensure that AI solutions selected by providers are valid for their intended use, while minimizing
risks – such as inaccurate data – that could be used in clinical decision making resulting in possible
patient harm.
It will be critical for federal agencies to collaborate with providers as this framework is created. ACOs
should play an important role in advising on the development, adoption and implementation of AI,
including design, development, governance, rulemaking, standards-setting, post-market surveillance and
clinical integration.. ACOs have many years of experience implementing new and novel technologies to
derive actionable insights from patient data. Many are already actively implementing or exploring how
to integrate AI into their activities. It is essential that any final requirements around AI’s use ensure the
technologies are scalable, secure, and transportable while minimizing potential bias and maintaining
robust privacy and security practices.
HHS Opportunities to Support Private Sector Activities
ACOs and providers in accountable care currently use AI solutions and other technologies and see
opportunities for improved use. As stated above, barriers of cost, education, ROI, and compatibility with
EHRs are major obstacles to overcome and voluntary adoption of the AI solutions is preferable.
CMS/ASTP should provide more support for vetting currently available tools (e.g., transparency in
expected costs, assessments on whether tool does what it purports to do). These agencies could also
undertake certification of these products or at a minimum require transparency from vendors on their
capabilities to enable safe and transparent use of AI solutions. Specifically, consideration should be
given to:
• The costs and benefits of individual adoption of products and their capabilities in developing
reports provided to the public.
• Integration into clinical workflows to minimize disruption and burden with specific attention to
whether these tools can integrate across all EHR instances and versions and particularly those
used by small and rural providers.
• Integration with health information exchanges (HIEs) or state data to provide better overall
population data for APM participants to use.
CONCLUSION
Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback on Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care. NAACOS and its members are committed to providing the highest

February 23, 2026
Page 4 of 4
quality care for patients while advancing population health goals for the communities they serve. We
look forward to our continued engagement to leverage AI to support clinical care. If you have any
questions, please contact Aisha Pittman, senior vice president of government affairs at NAACOS at
aisha_pittman@naacos.com.
Sincerely,
Emily D. Brower
President and CEO
NAACOS