February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)
Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A
330 C Street SW, Washington DC 20201
RE: Response to Artificial Intelligence Request for Information/Document Citation
#: 90 FR 60108
Dear Dr. Keane:
On behalf of the Behavioral Health Technology Coalition, I am writing to thank you for
the opportunity to respond to the ASTP Request for Information (RFI) published on
December 23, 2025. While each member organization has issued their own individual
response to the RFI, this correspondence reflects the broader views of the mental health
and substance use communities regarding the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to
health care.
This correspondence contains discussions of individual AI tools along with policy
recommendations regarding how some of this technology may be reimbursed by the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Noting the widespread
implementation of some AI tools among some mental health and addiction treatment
providers in the public and private sectors does NOT equal the endorsement of these
products by ANY of the signers of this regulatory reply.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and
its adoption and use in clinical care?
The biggest single barrier to the adoption AI in the delivery of mental health and
addiction treatment services in the United States is that perception has completely
overwhelmed reality. Specifically, the public and congressional debate about the use of
consumer facing chatbots in the provision of something that no organization supporting
this letter would refer to as mental health counseling has blotted out the many extremely
productive AI behavioral health use cases helping patients with mental illnesses and
substance use disorders in America every hour of every day.
In turn, the biggest barrier is feeding our biggest fear: a replay of the 2009 HITECH
Act scenario whereby the CMS and Congress omit behavioral health providers as
they undertake the process of defining reimbursement mechanisms either for
individual use cases or the AI field as whole – in this instance because of a single
minded media focus on tragic examples (e.g., suicides, psychotic episodes) resulting
from the use of chatbots.
601 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Suite 520W, Washington, DC 20001 | 202.331.1120 | www.bhitcoalition.org
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention • American Psychological Association • Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness
• Centerstone • Jewish Federations of North America • Meadows Mental Health Policy Institute • Mental Health America • National
Alliance on Mental Illness • National Association of Counties • National Association of County Behavioral Health & Developmental
Disability Directors • National Association for Behavioral Healthcare • National Association of State Alcohol/Drug Abuse Directors •
National Association of Social Workers • National Council for Mental Wellbeing • Netsmart

Chatbots: While there is no unified position within the Coalition regarding how chatbots
should be overseen at the state or federal levels, Dr. Vaile Wright’s testimony on behalf
of the American Psychological Association before the House Energy and Commerce
Health Subcommittee on September 3, 2025, offers an example of a potential path
forward. Dr. Wright recommended the following actions:
◼ “Establish Clear Regulatory Guardrails. We need a robust federal
framework that ensures safety and efficacy, including prohibiting the
misrepresentation of AI as licensed professionals and mandating transparency
and human oversight over clinical decisions.
◼ Protect Vulnerable Populations, Especially Youth. Adolescents are in a
critical developmental period. We must require age-appropriate safeguards
and robust data protections to support their healthy development.
◼ Prioritize Equity and Mitigate Harm. We must require that AI models
undergo rigorous, independent testing for harms across diverse populations
before they are deployed.
◼ Invest in Research and AI Literacy. The pace of AI development is
outpacing research. We need a significant federal investment in independent
research to understand AI's impacts, paired with comprehensive AI literacy
education.”
Dr. Tom Insel, the former Director of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), in
a Substack article entitled, “Chatbot Safety: Red Teaming, Jailbreaking and Real World
Use” (Jan 26, 2026) also offered another important insight. Insel cited estimates that a
stunning 28 million Americans are using just one chatbot for emotional or psychological
help. “A RAND study reported that 13.1% of young people (22.2% for ages 18-21) used
a chatbot for mental health advice and 92.7% found the advice somewhat or very helpful.
It’s a tough call, but my guess is that currently there are still fewer people seeking mental
health care from chatbots than from human therapists. But not by much. And not for
long.”
Dr. Insel distinguishes between general use consumer-facing products like ChatGPT and
bespoke models like Ash, Therabot, Flourish and Slingshot that are built for one thing:
psychological support. It is up to the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) or other
regulatory bodies to determine the safety and efficacy of these products. But it’s
instructive how Dr. Insel concluded his Subtstack piece: “The future of mental health
may not be human or machine. It may be human and machine, thoughtfully aligned. The
question is not whether people will keep turning to chatbots. They already prefer chatbots
as non-judgmental, ever-present, trusted supports. The question is whether we will build
them wisely enough to deserve that trust.”
AI Behavioral Health Use Cases: The attached summary developed by Leavitt Partners in
2024 outlines a wide array of AI applications in the mental health and substance use
601 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Suite 520W, Washington, DC 20001 | 202.331.1120 | www.bhitcoalition.org
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention • American Psychological Association • Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness
• Centerstone • Jewish Federations of North America • Meadows Mental Health Policy Institute • Mental Health America • National
Alliance on Mental Illness • National Association of Counties • National Association of County Behavioral Health & Developmental
Disability Directors • National Association for Behavioral Healthcare • National Association of State Alcohol/Drug Abuse Directors •
National Association of Social Workers • National Council for Mental Wellbeing • Netsmart

space. AI AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH IS NOT EXCLUSIVELY ABOUT
CHATBOTS. Among the most widely deployed currently are:
◼ AI Scribe/Ambient Listening/Clinical Documentation : The behavioral
health field is experiencing a generational workforce crisis. AI tools can now
automatically generate clinical documentation in recognized notes formats during or
immediately following patient sessions. The tool summarizes medical histories including
symptoms, screening results, medication interactions and side effects, and dosage
modification recommendations supporting compliance with health record requirements
greatly relieving provider workload.
◼ Intake Management: AI tools can automate the many clinical intake
processes replacing manual data entry, collecting standardized patient information
support clinical decision making by freeing clinical staff from administrative duties and
ensuring consistent capture of accurate intake data.
Similar AI tools – also applied at intake – could assist with the integration of behavioral
health and primary care. Line primary care physicians and nurse practitioners could
employ AI tools to automate screening for depression, anxiety and suicidality.
Collaborative Care teams could employ AI dashboards for coordination and mood
disorder tracking.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS
prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What
HHS regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability
to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and
applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
The impact of AI on behavioral health is no different than its projected impact on the
broader U.S. economy. These technologies could help a beleaguered workforce,
potentially produce improved clinical outcomes and generate unheard of efficiencies. But
these desired end states require new thinking on the part of CMS. For illustration
purposes, at present, most providers pay directly out of their overhead margins to
purchase AI scribe tools.
However, AI requires a reexamination of how CMS approaches Medicare payment
policy. Strictly speaking, ambient listening are tools are not just “note taking devices”
Because of the rich clinical information they contain, these AI tools are essential to – and
indistinguishable from – the Evaluation & Management Process engaged in by mental
health and addiction treatment clinicians every day.
Therefore, in response to RFI Question # 2, the BHIT Coalition specifically recommends
that Evaluation and Management (E/M) codes (99202–99499) be expanded to authorize
the reimbursement of AI Scribe/Ambient Listening/Clinical Documentation Tools.
601 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Suite 520W, Washington, DC 20001 | 202.331.1120 | www.bhitcoalition.org
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention • American Psychological Association • Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness
• Centerstone • Jewish Federations of North America • Meadows Mental Health Policy Institute • Mental Health America • National
Alliance on Mental Illness • National Association of Counties • National Association of County Behavioral Health & Developmental
Disability Directors • National Association for Behavioral Healthcare • National Association of State Alcohol/Drug Abuse Directors •
National Association of Social Workers • National Council for Mental Wellbeing • Netsmart

4. For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods
(pre- and post-deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and
human-centered evaluation methods for clinical care? Should HHS further
support these processes? If so, which mechanisms would be most impactful ( e.g.,
contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and/or prize competitions
The Coalition has a twofold answer to this question – a broad policy response and an
immediate practical reply. First, from a policy perspective, HHS should consider the
establishment of a formal framework to define, evaluate and validate “mental health
efficacy” for generate AI-enabled tools by integrating clinical outcomes metrics, user
safety benchmarks, and AI-specific performance standards. The framework would
present an opportunity to drive alignment across agencies (e.g., CMS, ASTP/ONC,
SAMHSA) on adverse events, longitudinal endpoints and real-world data collection.
But there are more immediate opportunities. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Innovations (CMMI) has an Integration Behavioral Health (IBH) Demonstration Notice
of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) currently open for solicitation. CMMI should be
encouraged to make the AI behavioral health use cases outlined the two-page attachment
eligible for immediate reimbursement under the IBH model. Further, CMS should
consider making behavioral health providers of all types eligible for contracts, grants or
cooperative agreements to field – on a wide scale – the AI tools described in the Leavitt
Partners summary. If this technology really is capable of generating efficiencies, CMS
shouldn’t be afraid to test it with some of the most challenging patient populations.
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities ( e.g., accreditation,
certification, industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and
effective AI use in clinical care?
Again, the Coalition has a twofold response to this question. HHS/CMS/ASTP should
consider the creation of a unified, federally supported registry to monitor the real-world
safety and efficacy of generative AI tools used in mental health and substance use
services. This would require collaboration with developers, EHR vendors, and digital
therapeutic companies.
But, as with Question # 4, there are practical considerations. First, ASTP and SAMHSA
just launched the USDCI+ BHIT Pilot in nine (9) sites. CMS and ASTP will certainly
want to wait for the results of that pilot project before moving forward to any AI clinical
certification and standards related activities. Second, our assumption is that the federal
agencies involved will collaborate with the major private sector certification bodies
including CARF, NCQA, etc.
6. Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and
cost expectations and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools
601 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Suite 520W, Washington, DC 20001 | 202.331.1120 | www.bhitcoalition.org
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention • American Psychological Association • Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness
• Centerstone • Jewish Federations of North America • Meadows Mental Health Policy Institute • Mental Health America • National
Alliance on Mental Illness • National Association of Counties • National Association of County Behavioral Health & Developmental
Disability Directors • National Association for Behavioral Healthcare • National Association of State Alcohol/Drug Abuse Directors •
National Association of Social Workers • National Council for Mental Wellbeing • Netsmart

would have the greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give new
insights on quality, and help reduce costs?
The Coalition cannot express an opinion on which AI tools met or exceeded performance
and cost expectations. As noted in the response to Question # 1, some of the most widely
utilized AI technology in the behavioral health space are AI scribes and intake
management tools.
With respect to novel AI tools that have the greatest potential to improve health care
outcomes and help reduce costs, perhaps the most interesting (without the intention of
providing an endorsement of any individual product) are AI technologies that identify
and aid clinical diagnosis of mental illnesses and developmental disorders (e.g., autism)
more accurately efficiently and accurately. For example, Tardive Dyskinesia (TD) is a
highly disabling movement disorder that is a common side effect of anti-psychotic
medications widely prescribed to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. It requires at
least 20 minutes for a psychiatrist to administer the Abnormal Involuntary Movement
Scale (AIMS) test in order to diagnose TD. However, there are now video AI tools that
screen for the presence of TD via facial recognition clues in minutes.
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care
organizations have the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care?
What are the primary administrative hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
In the context of behavioral health organizations, this question gets it wrong. Its not
“administrative” hurdles that obstruct the adoption of AI in clinical care. It is lack of clear
reimbursement pathways. Period. Full Stop.
8. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see
addressed by the adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns
do patients and caregivers have related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical
care?
Finally, this question calls for subjective responses and its difficult for a Coalition that
includes multiple patient advocacy organizations to respond comprehensively. In general,
people with mental health and substance use disorders hope that AI tools, at a minimum,
can provide this population with greater control over their own health care records and
perhaps better coordination across the healthcare system.
The concerns of the behavioral health advocacy organization, again as a general
proposition, revolve around that lack of input that people with lived experience have had
in the development of the technology providing the basis for AI health care tools. In
addition, privacy concerns are pervasive. Once mental health and substance use patient
data is shared with an AI tool, who controls it?
601 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Suite 520W, Washington, DC 20001 | 202.331.1120 | www.bhitcoalition.org
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention • American Psychological Association • Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness
• Centerstone • Jewish Federations of North America • Meadows Mental Health Policy Institute • Mental Health America • National
Alliance on Mental Illness • National Association of Counties • National Association of County Behavioral Health & Developmental
Disability Directors • National Association for Behavioral Healthcare • National Association of State Alcohol/Drug Abuse Directors •
National Association of Social Workers • National Council for Mental Wellbeing • Netsmart

◼ Who is the data shared with?
◼ Does law enforcement have access to it?
◼ Can it be used in employment decisions or family court?
Again, thank you for the opportunity to respond to this important Request for
Information. We end this correspondence where it began. The Behavioral Health
Information Technology Coalition strongly urges both ASTP and CMS not to repeat
the policy mistakes of the past.
Sincerely,
Alfonso V Guida, Jr.
Behavioral Health IT Coalition Coordinator
Email: aguida@guidelobby.com
Phone: 202.253.3386
601 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Suite 520W, Washington, DC 20001 | 202.331.1120 | www.bhitcoalition.org
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention • American Psychological Association • Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness
• Centerstone • Jewish Federations of North America • Meadows Mental Health Policy Institute • Mental Health America • National
Alliance on Mental Illness • National Association of Counties • National Association of County Behavioral Health & Developmental
Disability Directors • National Association for Behavioral Healthcare • National Association of State Alcohol/Drug Abuse Directors •
National Association of Social Workers • National Council for Mental Wellbeing • Netsmart