| FEDERAL
Modernization in Healthcare
A vision for improving service delivery while cutting costs
CMS has an opportunity to improve
healthcare service delivery, enhance
interoperability, and streamline
change management processes,
ultimately leading to better patient
outcomes and reduced costs within
the U.S. healthcare system.
Multi-channel data collection, agency
wide reporting, and AI-powered
change management will support
CMS's modernization efforts and
foster a patient-centered,
technology-enabled healthcare
ecosystem.

A Modern Approach to Service Delivery
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), the world's premier insurance payor, operates on an
unparalleled scale. As the largest processor of healthcare claims globally, CMS is the "big engine" of the healthcare
system. With more than 6,000 employees overseeing 1.5 million healthcare providers—every clinician in the
country is registered in Medicare. Major payors, hospitals, and health systems leverage the Qualtrics team to
understand and optimize the full patient journey across all touchpoints, including CMS regulatory surveys. Similarly,
major payors utilize the Qualtrics team to enhance the beneficiary experience at every interaction, including CAHPS
and Star Ratings. Despite CMS's immense scale and impact overshadowing these private sector organizations, it
currently relies on fragmented, siloed experience management solutions at the office, group, or division level. Like
innovative providers and payers, CMS can leverage this future-focused, experience-driven data modernization
approach to unify operational and experiential data across Medicare, Medicaid, and ACA programs—enabling
real-time insights into beneficiary needs, provider performance, and service gaps. By embedding intelligent
feedback loops and automation into its digital infrastructure, CMS can accelerate responsiveness, improve health
equity outcomes, and drive continuous improvement aligned with its modernization roadmap.
Interoperability Across Your Technology Ecosystem
Beyond patient and beneficiary experiences, the Qualtrics team can also gather critical feedback on internal
operations, including developer tools, interoperability initiatives, new software implementations, existing software
utilization, usage patterns, and training and enablement programs. Additionally, the Qualtrics team boasts robust
interoperability with major systems like EHRs, Salesforce, and ServiceNow, along with over 100 other out-of-the-box
connectors, ensuring seamless integration within CMS's existing amalgamation of technological tools.
Drive Successful Change Management
To advance CMS’ data and systems modernization, we propose a Phase 2 initiative following the June 16th
Healthcare Ecosystem RFI deadline, anchored in a change management approach that integrates agile
principles, customer experience (CX), and design thinking. This phase would focus on confidential engagement
with key stakeholders—including RFI respondents, CMS employees, contractors, providers, Medicare
Administrative Contractors (MACs), and Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs)—to gather actionable
insights that were limited in the public Phase 1 response.
Using secure, role-specific surveys, we will capture the lived experiences, unmet needs, and systemic pain
points of those embedded in CMS programs. This feedback becomes the foundation for iterative,
stakeholder-informed change, in which agile methods allow for rapid testing and refinement, design thinking
surfaces human-centered solutions, and CX principles ensure measurable improvements in both internal and
external service delivery.
This integrated change management framework not only accelerates modernization efforts but also increases
adoption, reduces resistance, and aligns CMS’s transformation with real-world user needs. Our team is fully
equipped to launch this effort without additional investment, seamlessly exporting data into CMS’ data lake or
visualizing it through cloud-based dashboards. The insights gained will guide responsive policymaking,
optimize workflows, and drive a more adaptive and equitable healthcare ecosystem.
2

Section 1: A Modern Approach to Service Delivery
The world's leading consumer
brands collect, analyze, report, and
act on insights from all touchpoints
in a single platform
Connect, analyze, and automate on data
from patients, providers, beneficiaries,
employees, contractors, and citizens
across agency wide touchpoints
DISENROLLMENT
CALL CENTERS
POPULATION
HEALTH
CAMPAIGN EVENTS/ PATIENT
MAC
MGMT. COMMUNITY PORTAL
INTERACTION
STAKEHOLDER
RESEARCH
QUALITY & NETWORKS/ PRICING
SCHEDULING WELLNESS /
REPUTATION CONTRACTING TRANSPARENCY
CARE
MANAGEMENT
SERVICE
AWARENESS CONSIDERATION ACCESS ONGOING CARE
DELIVERY
PLAN RN/DOC
OPEN ENROLLMENT BILLING
SEARCH INTERACTION
COVERAGE PROFILE REIMBURSEMENT
/BENEFITS CREATION COMPLAINTS & PROCESS
GRIEVANCES
Cost is much lower when consolidating tools and firms
3

Section 1: A Modern Approach to Service Delivery
Qualtrics drives efficiency and improved
service delivery across the agency
DIGITAL EXPERIENCE POST CALL ANALYTICS
Collect insights and feedback via app, website, and Run AI & natural language processing at the sentence
portal intercepts. Route insights to real time, role based level of 100% of calls between CSRs and beneficiaries
dashboards to drive change management. and providers. Understand the call reasons, situation,
effort, emotion, and intensity of the callers and CSRs.
POST INTERACTION SURVEYS AUTOMATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Gather insights via proactive surveys after any Quantify and score CSRs on the presence of desired
stakeholder touchpoint with CMS. behaviors and the absence of undesired behaviors.
Digital Phone Paper/PDF Beneficiary
Calls Chat bot Social media Emails
Surveys Surveys Forms Calls
Natural Language Processing
and Understanding
Enrollment Digital Education Call Center Experience Appeals Executive
Team Team Team Leaders Leaders Team Team
Optimize change management (refine IVR,
Executive view of consumer experience across calls,
education, outreach, service quality, enrollment,
websites, portals, chats, emails
trust)
Track and drive increased customer satisfaction,
Optimize staffing levels for call center agents and
customer effort, customer trust scores
QA analysts to improve efficiency.
Decrease costly and redundant consulting and
Increase digital deflection (decrease number of
technology contracts aimed at understanding the
calls)
voice of the stakeholder

Section 1: A Modern Approach to Service Delivery
Break down organizational silos and
drive cost savings across CMS through
wall-to-wall data collection,
automation, and action on a single
platform.
Beneficiaries Employees
Gather frontline insights
AI insights from 100% of calls,
from employees and
chats, emails, & solicited
contractors for workforce
feedback in every call center
and tech stack optimization
Providers Citizens
Collect, automate, and act on all Listen to and act on citizen
healthcare provider and insurance experiences across each touchpoint
provider insights. Expand Qualtrics with CMS
listening across every touchpoint a
provider has with CMS.
5

Section 2: Interoperability Across Your Technology Ecosystem
Qualtrics supports interoperability
with out of the box connectors and
open APIs
Understand Drive action and
experiences at all automation at key
touchpoints. moments.
Import real-time profile Drive action through
and transaction data to alerts, workflows, and
drive feedback capture native integrations
Ingest conversational
Enrich patient profiles
data sources (calls,
based on prior feedback
Real-Time
chats, etc.) for analysis
and sentiment
Feedback to
Action Loop
Facilitate distribution of Perform service recovery
survey-based feedback by automating the right
capture at key moments action at the right time
Dozens of out-of-the-box connectors, native
pre-built integrations, and robust APIs.
6

FROM THE RFI
“The agency, in partnership with ASTP/ONC, is seeking public input on
how best to advance a seamless, secure, and patient-centered
digital health infrastructure.”
RESEARCH DESIGN/BUILD/PROCURE/TEST DEPLOY
REPEAT
Survey Research
Panel Procurement
Focus Groups
User Interviews
Existing CMS Qualtrics
data
7
TCAPMI
SERUTAEF
Section 3: Drive Successful Change Management
Qualtrics is the leading
platform for collecting and
analyzing feedback
throughout all the phases of
technology modernization
Capture the Test, validate, and refine Continuously measure
confidential needs and solutions based on end-user stakeholder
perceptions of all feedback to align with user experiences across all
stakeholders needs, reduce risk, and channels with our digital
(providers, patients, increase adoption. health infrastructure.
payors, etc) at scale to
shape the future
healthcare
Survey Research Embedded Web/App
Prototype Testing (UX) Surveys
IT Team Feedback Digital Behavior Analysis
Training Feedback Transactional Feedback
Call Center Help/Desk
Analysis

Section 3: Drive Successful Change Management
Drive successful change management
by providing project stakeholders an
avenue to share requirements and
feedback
At key milestones, pulse project team members - including service delivery
leaders, UX designers, developers, testers, trainers, trainees, and more.
Is the team collecting feedback at these key project phases?
Encounter Unforeseen
No Yes Identify and Mitigate Risks
Risks and Issues
NEW TICKET
Proactively identify project risks based on stakeholder
Potential Rollout Issue
feedback, helping project leaders re-align scope,
timelines, and resources to increase project success.
8

Section 3: Drive Successful Change Management | FEDERAL
Call to Action
Qualtrics and their partners will help CMS with an action plan using Qualtrics
feedback, data, and insights
In response to the questions raised by CMS’s RFI, we are pleased to
share information and recommendations grounded in its experience
partnering with government agencies and the private sector to
successfully modernize IT – driving value and building a better user
experience.
We prepare the organization for successful implementation by
combining data-driven insights through Qualtrics tools, stakeholder
engagement, and agile planning. Key activities include:
● Insight Generation: Leveraging AI-enabled analytics and
geospatial tools to uncover experience drivers and identify
disparities across populations and locations.
● Strategic Alignment: Translate insights into actionable priorities
that align with the agency mission.
● Process and Policy Modernization: Apply human-centered
design to reengineer workflows and identify policy or regulatory
barriers to modernization.
● Agile Implementation Planning: Build adaptable roadmaps and
success criteria, enabling early wins through iterative development
led by change agents and product teams.
● Experience Integration: Apply fully integrated design thinking
approach that aligns all parts of the agency to drive accelerated
outcomes and scalable impact to ensure stakeholders needs are
identified, creating efficiencies before spending
9

Section 3: Drive Successful Change Management | FEDERAL
Communication
Armed with a well-structured strategic communication approach, CMS leaders
can communicate with a unified message to ensure stakeholders are equipped to
move in the agreed upon direction.
Core elements of our partners’ strategic communication approach include:
● Addressing Barriers early by proactively managing perceptions and
readiness for change.
● Shaping Positive Narratives through targeted messaging that builds
momentum and influences key decision-makers.
● Reinforcing Success via consistent “sustain the gains” communication to
maintain support and credibility.
● Promoting Shared Outcomes that highlight collective wins and
measurable progress.
● Creating a Governance Structure to coordinate communication across
levels, activate change champions, and ensure message consistency across
partner networks.
10

Section 3: Drive Successful Change Management | FEDERAL
System of action
CMS will now be prepared to transition strategic planning into action by aligning
modernized IT systems with redesigned policies and business processes. The
goal is to deliver measurable outcomes through structured execution and agile
delivery.
Key activities include:
● Identify process, policy, and technology interdependencies
● Translating Goals into Actionable Initiatives
● Defining Clear Ownership by assigning roles and responsibilities to drive
accountability.
● Applying Agile Sprints to pilot efforts, promoting transparency and rapid
iteration.
● Establishing Success Criteria and Accountability Frameworks to guide
implementation and measure progress.
● Tracking Impact and Insights through Qualtrics tools, tracking behavioral
analytics and digital insights, to quantify performance outcomes from
initiation through delivery.
This structured yet flexible approach ensures CMS can modernize IT in a way
that is user-centered, scalable, and outcome-driven.
11

Section 3: Drive Successful Change Management
Leverage AI & technology
automation to remove manual effort
& streamline data collection and
analysis efforts.
New Ticket
Potential Website Issue
SEE DETAILS
With Qualtrics AI and embedded workflows, teams can drive outcomes from data faster than
ever before, reducing manual burden and accelerating time to value.
Improve data quality with Synthesize qualitative data
AI-powered adaptive questions. in a matter of seconds.
Infuse conversational follow-ups within Surface key themes from large sets of
data collection activities, helping teams unstructured data in a matter of a few
capture higher-quality data and insights clicks, saving significant time compared
the first time. to manual analysis.
Ask questions of data, Streamline action-taking
conversationally. with automated workflows.
Reduce the barrier of statistical expertise Automatically route prioritized areas of
to generate insights, allowing users to opportunity to the right teams through
get to findings faster and through a point-and-click workflows, ticketing, and
simple conversational interface. native integrations with key CMS systems.
12

Section 4: Effective cost cutting
CMS uses many
redundant firms to
gather siloed
insights
There are 86 unique contracts for
Marketing Research, Public
Opinion Polling, and Research and
Development in the Social
Sciences and Humanities
CMS can save millions of dollars via
consolidating redundant firms whose work
can be accomplished with modern technology
Current Marketing Current Research and
Research and Public Development in the Social
Opinion Polling Costs* Sciences and Humanities Costs*
$56M in current cost $739M in current cost
$492M in option year cost $1.9B in option year cost
Qualtrics could replace 10-20% of the
above contracts at a fraction of the cost
*Data from fedmine a gov spend solution
13

Section 5: Proof
| FEDERAL
Leading organizations trust Qualtrics
14