Request for Information
CMS Health Technology Ecosystem
Introduction
eSimplicity is a federal government contractor with subject matter expertise in health data, quality
measures, and interoperability. We are leading some of the largest health data system and service
modernization efforts for both Medicare and Medicaid. Additionally, we have pioneered advanced
AI solutions, offering valuable insights on clinical data quality improvement as well as fraud
prevention at CMS since 2020. Our projects support many relevant Medicare lines of business
(HQR, EQRS, QPP, iQIES, QIN/QIO, etc.) as well as Medicaid data processing and governance.
We are committed to the evolution of the health technology ecosystem. Our experience supporting
federal agencies in these domains provides us with a unique perspective on the data and
interoperability challenges CMS faces and the transformative value of data in advancing the
agency’s mission to enhance the health and well-being of all Americans.
Upstream choices in how the government handles data, infrastructure, and technology can shape
how the private sector implements digital health products. Together, these sectors can have a deep
impact on care coordination, patient choice, and positive patient experiences and we welcome the
opportunity to help shape the future of digital health with CMS.
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate
developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and Caregivers?
Short Term:
• Support the development community by providing access to better quality documentation,
and test datasets to ensure the tools they build can support the complexity of the CMS data
requirements at scale.
• Host hackathons aimed at solving Medicare and Medicaid focused issues, resulting in
innovative solutions, and attracting new developer talent.
• Increase marketing campaigns aimed at beneficiaries and caregivers around already
available digital health products available to them and encourage engagement from users
to define the problem statements and use cases these populations need.
• Establish communities of practice meetings that allow different stakeholder groups from
digital health companies, providers, EHR vendors, and beneficiaries to come together to
gain a common understanding of the problem space and generate ideas to break though the
most common barriers.
Longer-Term:
• Establish incentives for the most disadvantaged providers and beneficiaries to support
access and adoption of health IT without creating additional financial burden.
• Establish incentives for digital health product vendors to offer low or reduced cost products
to disadvantaged providers.

• Adopt measures in value-based payment models that incentivize the use of digital health
products.
• Publicly report measures around digital health product adoption to encourage participation.
• Continue to determine barriers to interoperability and create mandates that will remove or
reduce the burdens of integration with EHR systems.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest--
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
• Patient-Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs): Access to near real-time patient reported
data would allow measurement of patient perspectives of their care which elevates the
patient voice in care delivery. Provider data often includes clinician interpretation of the
patient’s symptoms, health status, and quality of life.
• All-payer data: Ability to measure patient outcomes across all patients not just Medicaid
and Medicare.
• Interim claims-based measure results: More current claims-based measure outcome data to
effect change in care delivery sooner.
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue Button 2.0
API?
Quality Reporting Data such as PROMs, electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQMs), and
structured EHR data collected by CMS would complement Blue Button claims data by offering a
more holistic view of patient health. Integrating these sources would support the development of
tools that serve not only Medicare beneficiaries but also broader populations and enable
longitudinal care tracking across multiple data types.
c. What obstacles prevent accessing to these data sources today?
Despite progress, data exchange across EHR systems remains fragmented, inconsistent, and
vendor-dependent, often hindering access to timely and complete datasets. Requiring
standardization or leveraging AI to standardize raw EHR data could help address these challenges,
enhance data quality, and promote broader adoption of eCQMs. Quality measure data is often stale
and delayed in availability, reducing the effectiveness for decision making and protocol
adjustment. Incorporating PROMs and eCQMs decreases dependency on claims-based measures,
which are constrained by limited data elements and require extended periods to reach data
completeness.
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available APIs over
proprietary APIs?
• Require FHIR-based APIs for all CMS-regulated entities like MA, MCOs, CHIP plans,
ACOs, and CMMI models.

• Start to mandate bi-directional APIs that support collection of data for PROMs and reward
for use of standards based open APIs.
• Increase capabilities to support authorization for clinical data exchange.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a directory, and
should users bear a cost?
A nationwide directory of FHIR endpoints would significantly improve the discoverability and
accessibility of health data across systems, enabling more seamless provider-to-provider, provider-
to-payer, and provider-to-patient data exchange. By making it easier to identify where and how to
connect with other systems, such a directory would:
• Improve care coordination by reducing the friction in accessing patient data across
disparate systems.
• Enhance patient outcomes by enabling more informed, timely clinical decisions.
• Lower administrative burden on providers by automating manual outreach or record
requests and reducing the need for point-to-point interfaces.
Working with quality data-specialized integrators to create a centralized directory, coupled with a
robust awareness and adoption campaign, would help drive utilization of open APIs, especially for
organizations with limited technical resources.
To encourage participation, a tiered or minimal-cost fee for providers could be appropriate
particularly if inclusion in the directory reduces long-term costs associated with manual data
exchange, integration maintenance, and compliance.
TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT:
e. How could EHRs capable of bulk data transfer be used to reduce the burden on providers for
reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are needed to show benefit? What
concerns are there with this approach?
Capabilities:
Bulk data transfer capabilities in EHRs can significantly reduce the administrative burden on
providers by automating the extraction and submission of quality performance data. AI could be
leveraged to identify the appropriate fields and associated data to make the data meaningful. This
would require deep domain expertise in upstream clinical data, a strong understanding of CMS
reporting requirements, and proficiency in data integration techniques. This streamlining could
lead to lower costs for providers, especially those currently relying on third-party vendors to
manually extract and format data for CMS reporting.

Concerns:
Bulk transfer increases the volume of sensitive health data in transit and at rest, raising the stakes
in the event of a data breach. Transmitting large volumes of unused or irrelevant data increases
risk exposure without necessarily improving outcomes. There must be a process for verifying the
accuracy of AI-generated or inferred data elements, especially when used in performance
evaluations or payment decisions. While data storage is relatively inexpensive at scale, unchecked
growth in data volumes could lead to significant cumulative costs for CMS and other stakeholders.
TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing access to
the entirety of a patient’s electronic health information (EHI)?
New measures can be adopted faster with less burden on providers to submit additional data.
Measure development and testing periods could be shortened and the decision to adopt measures
can be made based on existing data without requiring voluntary provider submission.
a. What are the primary obstacles to this?
The largest obstacles are data security, data storage, and patient granular consent. A robust
authorization model is needed to overcome obstacles in patient granular consent, it will be
important to give patients control over access to their medical record data depending on the use.
Conclusion
eSimplicity appreciates the opportunity to respond to this Request for Information and contribute
to the advancement of CMS’s digital health and interoperability goals. As a government partner
with deep experience in artificial intelligence, data modernization, and human-centered design, we
strongly support CMS’s commitment to creating a more connected, patient-centric health
technology ecosystem.
We believe that the strategic steps outlined particularly around open APIs, real-time data access,
and enhanced patient and developer engagement will foster innovation, reduce burden, and drive
equitable care delivery for Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers. eSimplicity stands ready
to support CMS in co-developing, piloting, and scaling these efforts.
We welcome continued dialogue and collaboration to ensure that CMS remains a leader in health
data modernization, technology innovation, and inclusive digital transformation.