TJK@KesslerHCConsulting.com Page 1 of 5 (443) 679- 7981 June 16, 2025 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services Attention: CMS -0042 -NC P .O. Box 8013 Baltimore, MD 21244 -8013 Subject: Request for Information : Health Technology Ecosystem ( CMS -0042 -NC) Dear Dr. Thomas Keane and Dr. Mehmet Oz , Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Request for Information (RFI) : Health Technology Ecosystem. My comments are based upon my time as an employee for the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) (retired in May, 2025 ) i, my being a patient , and most importantly, one of four siblings currently helping our elderly parents make choices with regard to their health care. General Comments In the Summary, the RFI conveys the importance of empowering patients to make better decisions for their health and well -being and that CMS seeks input regarding the market of digital health products for Medicare beneﬁciaries as well as the state of data interoperability and broader health technology infrastructure . Although these are certainly worthy topics , none address the issues that are of most importance to Medicare beneﬁciaries or seek to resolve the problems that beneﬁciaries and their representatives 1 face every day. The most glaring absence in the RFI is the lack of any reference to improper payments or fraud, waste, and abuse. Using human- centered design to prioritize the needs, preferences, and limitations of beneﬁciaries could facilitate the building of a digital healthcare system that simpliﬁes messaging to beneﬁciaries, uniﬁes providers and develop ers, and promotes innovation. This approach would also facilitate reductions in improper payments and fraud, waste, and abuse whi le also recognizing beneﬁciar ies have a rol e beyond being forced to use whatever system is chosen for them. 1. Beneﬁciaries must be given accurate and immediate information regarding the coverage of individual items and services , as well as their ﬁnancial responsibilities. Medicare coverage requirements continue to be difficult for both beneﬁciaries and providers to identify . Even when identiﬁable, determining the actual meaning of the requirements can be problematic with the same language being interpreted differently by different contractors. Some coverage requirements , such as those for wound care, can be tra ced to retired local coverage determinations. Add to this, conditions of participation, conditions of payment, documentation requirements, etc., and both providers and beneﬁciaries struggle to understand if or when items and services are covered. 1 The RFI uses various terms, e.g., “loved ones ,” “c a r e g i v e r,” “representatives ,” e t c. For consistency, this response will use the term representative except where language is quoted directly from the RFI. 
TJK@KesslerHCConsulting.com Page 2 of 5 (443) 679- 7981 The confusion surrounding the identiﬁcation of all coverage requirements is propagated as a way of impeding even more fraud, waste, and abuse because making it more difficult to identify requirements will make it difficult for “bad actors” to ﬁgure out if or when Medicare covers speciﬁc items and services. This approach has not proven accurate . “Bad actors” have no problem discovering new ways to commit fraud , but providers and beneﬁciaries remain unable to determine whether items and services are reaso nable and necessary. It is time for CMS to change its approach and clearly map the requirements for every item and service within any new technology , so this information is available in real time . Not only will th is approach assist beneﬁciaries , but it will also reduce the burden on providers. 2. Notiﬁcations of changes in Part A coverage are equally important in stopping fraud, waste , and abuse. For example, hospice -related fraud is signiﬁcant, and when a patient is fraudulently enrolled in hospice, the ability to receive other Medicare beneﬁts stops. Currently, a patient may not ﬁnd out about the change until they need non- hospice -related care and are denied. If properly addressed, new technology must notify the beneﬁciary in real time of changes in coverage, e.g., a change to hospice, so that the patient (or their representative) can immediately address an erroneous or fraudulent change with CMS. This model must be replicated for all similar changes. 3. New technology should also result in additional changes that will help beneﬁciaries and reduce the burden on providers. As an example, rather than CMS relying on a provider to give a Medicare beneﬁciary an advance beneﬁciary notice (ABN) (CMS -R-131), the beneﬁciary could receive the ABN electronically through an app while in their provider’s office. The beneﬁciary would immediately know the reason Medicare has deemed an item or service not reasonable and necessary under §1862 [42 U.S.C. 1395y] along wi th the cost of the item or service. Additionally, a beneﬁciary that receives an ABN when not actually at a provider’s office would have some knowledge that potentially fraudulent events are occurring. In the same way, the new technology should also be used to convey other notices, including discharge appeal notices, so that beneﬁciaries and their family have immediate information about appeal rights. And once again, by incorporating these functions into an app, the burden placed on provider s would be reduced while also giving CMS assurance that the beneﬁciary received accurate and thorough information when it was needed. 4. Beneﬁciary health and well -being and the market of digital health products need to begin with protecting beneﬁciaries from the constant attempts to gain access to their information and their ﬁnancial resources. This is of vital importance to beneﬁciari es, most of whom are on ﬁxed incomes. It is also the main concern of the representatives helping them. Patients, including my parents and myself, are inundated with phone calls, texts, e -mails, and regular mail from “bad actors” attempting to steal person al health information and money. The “bad actors” will not stop trying, and the health technology infrastructure must be designed with these situations in mind. Rather than engaging with various phone calls, text messages, etc., a beneﬁciary must be given a method to immediately check a single app or website to determine the validity of any contact from CMS or their health care providers . This technology is already available through ﬁnancial institutions, including banks and investment companies, and given the ﬁnancial ramiﬁcations, it should be used for an individual’s health care. To be effective, the information must be conveyed in real time so that patients - as the ﬁrst line of defense in ﬁghting fraud, waste, and abuse and improper payments - can easily distinguish legitimate requests from illegitimate attempts to steal their information or money. 
TJK@KesslerHCConsulting.com Page 3 of 5 (443) 679- 7981 5. The app must notify beneﬁciaries of current “phishing ” and fraud -related schemes . This includes notiﬁcations tailored to the beneﬁciary should the beneﬁciary be the recipient of an item or service that CMS has marked as having a higher probability of fraud. The notiﬁcation can also advise the beneﬁciary or representative what action should be taken i n response to receiving erroneous or fraudulent items or services. 6. For some time, the CMS, Center for Program Integrity (CPI) has considered the possibility of conducting a “ Chili Cook -Off,” i.e., a competition amongst artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) and information technology (IT) companies to develop a system to carry out automated medical record reviews . Such a system would greatly beneﬁt CMS’ efforts to combat improper payments and fraud, waste, and abuse given that CMS processes over one billion claims annually , but by some estimates reviews less tha n .01% of all claims. Through the “Chili Cook -Off,” e ach company would be given the opportunity to build and then demonstrate their solution. Unfortunately, CPI has met resistance in carrying out the “Chili Cook -Off” because of the d ecision that there is no statutory authority to conduct such a competition. This decision seems counter to the direction of the current administration. The Department of Health and Human Services must re -look at this issue and ma ke a clear decision as to whether such authority does not exist and work with the current administration to either develop a work -around or push for immediate Congressional action. 7. When attempting to procure new AI or IT systems, including those to conduct medical record review, CMS has relied upon one contract, an existing IDIQ, rather than establishing a new contract speciﬁc to each need. This approach has limited the ability to explore new companies that may have ground -breaking technology. Taking an alternative approach where each contracto r focuses upon the functional needs will facilitate procuring the technology actually sought. 8. CPI is also limited in the type of demonstrations conducted. S ection 40 2(a)(1)(J) of the S ocial Security Amendments of 1967, as amended [42 U.S.C. 1395 b-1(a)(1)(J)] authorizes the Secretary to “develop or demonstra te improved methods for the investigation and prosecution of fraud in the provision of care or services un der the health programs established by the Social Security Act [the Act]. ” CPI has use d this authority on nu merous occasions, but the plain language limits these demonstrations to those related to the “investigation and prosecution of fraud. ” CPI needs broader authority to conduct demonstrations that are not only focused on fraud, but also on waste, abuse , and improper payments. If deemed necessary, CMS must pursue immediate Congressional intervention to enable demonstrations with a broader purpose. 9. With the establishment of the Fraud Prevention System (FPS) , CMS beg an moving away from “pay and chase .” However, u pon identifying potential fraud through the FPS, CMS does not make any effort to determine whether CMS’ coverage requirements and policies should be changed or reﬁned to eliminate those aspects be ing exploited by “bad actors. ” Without this , the cycle of “bad actors” committing the same fraud will continue , the FPS will continue identifying the fraud , and new “bad actors . CMS is not decreas ing opportunities for fraud. T o eliminate this cycle, a direct line of communication must be established between CPI and CM so discussions can occur about whether speciﬁc coverage requirements or policies should be changed . Responses to Speciﬁc Questions PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take? 
TJK@KesslerHCConsulting.com Page 4 of 5 (443) 679- 7981 RESPONSE: 1. Any a pp must provide immediate information to the beneﬁciary (or his representative/family members) about the coverage of items or services that providers are ordering . This includes information on whether prior authorization is needed BEFORE leaving the provider’s office since too often, patients leave only to ﬁnd out later that prior authorization was needed . This also includes the electronic issuance of an ABN or other notice that includes the cost of the item or service so that a beneﬁciar y is not su rprised when receiving a bill at a much later date . Again, the coverage requirements should be clear and easy to understand so that the d ecisions can be made in real time and the negative impact on beneﬁciaries minimized . 2. The app should enable multiple users to access the app (as approved by the beneﬁciary) . Many times, multiple family members are involved in the care of a parent , including transport ing them to healthcare appointments, carrying out m edical treatments , or ensuring medications are taken as scheduled. 3. Visit-summaries must be easily accessible. Frequently, patients are overwhelmed by all the information conveyed during an appointment. Making summar ies immediately available through an app would help those beneﬁciaries or their representatives PC-1. a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones ’ health that can be enabled by digital health products? RESPONSE: Rather than rely ing on providers or third -party vendors to forward health records , give beneﬁciaries (and loved ones) total access to their own health records so that they can send or provide access to their records. Thus, the only individual that could block the movement of a beneﬁciary’s medical information is the beneﬁciary. PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)? RESPONSE: No. PC-2. b. If not, in what contexts or for what workﬂows would it be most valuable to use one portal or system to access all such health information? RESPONSE: As previously noted, all health information must be accessible with the beneﬁciary or representative having the authority to send their health information to another provider. PC-4. a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet? RESPONSE: Currently, patient s cannot view their entire medical record , including x -rays, lab results, visit summaries, from all their providers through a single app. Nor can patients use a single app to schedule appointments with their different providers. This type of care -coordination must be simpliﬁed for beneﬁciaries and their representatives. PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in these digital health products? RESPONSE: Rather than hoping that patients and their representatives use the technology, the technology should be part of the initial entry into Medicare. While it is true that some beneﬁciaries cannot use this technology and might decline the offer , a new era of beneﬁciaries and representatives are arriving. In the near future, most beneﬁciaries and their representatives will already be totally immersed in technology and realize the usefulness of an “all in one place” app for their healthcare needs. PC-5. a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on the basis of their efficacy, quality , or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient and caregiv er adoption of 