February 23, 2026
[Submitted electronically to http://www.regulations.gov]
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
Hubert H. Humphrey Building
200 Independence Ave, SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: [RIN 0955-AA13] Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of
Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
Dear Secretary Kennedy,
The American Pharmacists Association (APhA) appreciates the opportunity to provide
comments on CMS’s “Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of
Clinical Care,” request for information. APhA writes to CMS to offer comments on behalf of our
pharmacist members on artificial intelligence (AI). In 2024, APhA’s House of Delegates (HOD)
adopted the following resolution:
Artificial Intelligence Use in Pharmacy Practice
1. APhA opposes the replacement of a pharmacist’s professional
judgment or patient’s access to their pharmacist with artificial
intelligence.
2. APhA calls on the profession of pharmacy and all related
organizations to proactively assess and respond to the evolving
role of artificial intelligence in pharmacy practice and workforce
dynamics.
3. APhA encourages judicious use of artificial intelligence by
pharmacists and pharmacy personnel as a tool to elevate
pharmacy practice and enhance patient care.

4. APhA advocates for the integration of pharmacists into the
development, design, validation, implementation, and
maintenance of artificial intelligence solutions.
5. APhA calls on regulatory bodies, employers, and other relevant
parties to develop laws, regulations, and policies as applicable for
artificial intelligence to ensure patient safety, privacy, public
awareness, and public protection.
6. APhA calls on those providing artificial intelligence solutions to
implement processes that identify and mitigate bias and
misinformation in artificial intelligence.
7. APhA advocates for education providers to facilitate, and
pharmacy personnel to seek out, education and training on the
lawful, ethical, and clinical use of artificial intelligence.
APhA represents pharmacists, student pharmacists, and pharmacy technicians in all practice
settings, including but not limited to community pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care facilities,
specialty pharmacies, community health centers, physician offices, ambulatory clinics, managed
care organizations, hospice settings, and government facilities. Our members strive to improve
medication use, advance patient care, and enhance public health.
HHS’s “OneHHS” AI strategy “focused on the Department’s internal interests and ambitions to
harness the transformative potential of AI and embed it into HHS’s operations, while upholding
patient privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties.”1 HHS is seeking “feedback from those building,
buying, evaluating, using, and receiving care from AI tools that are part of clinical care as well
as from those who wish to do so but face barriers.”2 HHS provides that the information it
receives will be utilized to shape agency policy on the regulation, reimbursement, and research
and development associated with AI.3 APhA believes there are ample opportunities for HHS,
APhA, and our nation’s pharmacists to work together within the context of our HOD policies to
advance AI adoption in pharmacies and improve Americans’ health. Accordingly, APhA
provides the following comments on these three topic areas and responses to some of the
questions posed by HHS below.
Regulation (FR 60109)
1 Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical
Care, 90 Fed. Reg. 60108, 60109. Available at: https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-23641/p-12.
2 Id.
3 Id.
2

HHS notes the agency is the “nation’s principal health regulator” and that it “seeks to establish
a regulatory posture on AI that is well understood, predictable, and proportionate to any risks
presented to enable rapid innovation while protecting patients and the confidentiality of their
identifiable health information, and maintaining public trust.”4 Given HHS’s role, APhA calls
on HHS to develop AI regulations and policies that ensure patient safety, privacy, public
awareness, and public protection. Regarding patient safety, AI should not replace a
pharmacist’s professional judgment. AI should be used to enhance the care pharmacists provide
and reduce administrative burdens that often divert them from providing direct patient care
services. Regulations protecting patient privacy and their associated electronic health
information should also be a top priority for HHS, as patients worry that information about
their medical conditions and histories will be shared inappropriately. Health care providers and
patients are also concerned that AI will provide users with biased or misleading information.
Accordingly, APhA calls on HHS to implement processes to identify and mitigate bias and
misinformation in the AI technologies it uses. Additionally, the public must trust that the
regulations HHS and other agencies put in place will, in fact, protect their data while yielding
accurate information to health care providers. As such, APhA encourages HHS to promote
what the agency, the administration, and those in the private sector are doing to ensure that any
AI-embedded technologies used in health care are accurate, safe, and protect patient data.
Public buy-in is critical to the successful adoption of AI, and HHS is uniquely positioned to
inform the public about its benefits. APhA is happy to assist HHS in sharing information about
the agency’s use of AI with pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, pharmacy personnel, and
patients.
Reimbursement (FR 60109)
HHS also “seek[s] to ensure that the potential promises of AI innovations are not diminished
through inertia and instead such payment systems are modernized to meet the needs of a
changing healthcare system.”5 More specifically, HHS “seek[s] feedback on payment policy
changes that ensure payers have the incentive and ability to promote access to high-value AI
clinical interventions, foster competition among clinical care AI tool builders, and accelerate
access to and affordability of AI tools for clinical care.”6 AI has the potential to automate billing
and claims processing. Through this automation, there is also the potential for greater
transparency into the reimbursement and payment models currently in place, which could
improve accuracy and reduce fraud, waste, and abuse. Additionally, by automating these
processes, health care providers, including pharmacists, will have more time to focus on patient
care rather than on administrative tasks and paperwork. Incentivizing those involved in
reimbursement and payment processes to adopt AI for these goals will help lower overall
health care spending by reducing fraudulent and inaccurate claims and improving health
outcomes for Americans. APhA encourages HHS to ensure that pharmacists are involved in the
4 Id. Available at: https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-23641/p-23.
5 Id. Available at: https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-23641/p-24.
6 Id. at 60110.
3

rollout of such technologies and that pharmacists and pharmacies are eligible for any incentives,
as they play an instrumental role in providing patient care across the country.
Research & Development (FR 60110)
HHS is also “seek[ing] input on ways in which [they] may invest in research & development
(including public-private partnerships and cooperative research and development agreements
(CRADAs)) to integrate AI in care delivery and create new, long-term market opportunities that
improve the health and wellbeing of all Americans.”7 By supporting the use of certain
technologies, more health care providers, including pharmacists, will feel comfortable using
them in their daily practice. Additionally, by working with pharmacy schools and innovators in
the AI sector, HHS can incorporate technologies in their designs to ensure AI provides accurate
information, protects patient privacy, and optimizes patient care. APhA encourages HHS to
seek opportunities with pharmacy schools, universities and pharmacy companies that research
and develop tools for pharmacists and pharmacies. Pharmacists know where potential pain
points lie in practice and can serve as a resource for these innovators, helping them identify
appropriate uses of AI in both claims processing and direct patient care. As such, APhA urges
HHS to consult with pharmacists who are actively using AI in practice or innovating in this
space, not only at the time of rollout for one of these new technologies, but also during
development and ongoing real-time improvements.
Specific Questions (FR 60110)
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its adoption and use
in clinical care?
One of the top concerns APhA hears from members is uncertainty about how AI use is
regulated. This creates risk, and an entity’s legal team will often determine that the risk is too
high. In line with this barrier is the potential liability concerns associated with its use. APhA
encourages judicious use of artificial intelligence by pharmacists and pharmacy personnel as a
tool to elevate pharmacy practice and enhance patient care rather than to replace a pharmacist’s
professional judgment. To ease these barriers, HHS needs to provide health care providers and
entities with greater guidance regarding the use of AI-embedded technologies. HHS could also,
where appropriate and without compromising patient safety or privacy, use its enforcement
discretion to minimize fines or other penalties associated with potential AI-related mistakes.
Other concerns regarding the adoption of AI technologies include cost, workforce integration,
and patient perception. Many health care entities, including pharmacies, are already struggling
financially. Thus, adding on the costs of these technologies without knowing the true benefit is
often deemed too risky for many health care entity leaders and pharmacy owners. HHS should
assess ways to reimburse and incentivize pharmacists for providing patient care services as well
7 Id. Available at: https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-23641/p-25.
4

as fund pharmacies, hospitals, and other entities to implement such technologies. Regarding
workforce integration, many health care providers, including pharmacists, lack sufficient
training and education on AI, leading them to be skeptical of its use. To address this knowledge
gap, HHS could provide guidance and training on the appropriate use of AI. Additionally, HHS
could work with schools of pharmacy to ensure that the next generation of pharmacists is
equipped with the knowledge to utilize AI-embedded technologies to optimize patient care.
Regarding patient perceptions, many patients have negative views of the rise of AI in health
care, fearing it could provide health care providers with inaccurate information or replace the
interaction they have with them.8 Because of this, health care providers avoid using it, as they
do not have to explain its use to their patients. As such, HHS must play an active role in
educating patients and the public about the benefits of AI-embedded technologies in health care
and how potential risks are mitigated to guarantee patient safety.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to
incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or programs
could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care?
As discussed above, there are many barriers to the broader adoption of AI in clinical care by
both health care providers and health care entities. HHS needs to not only address these
barriers but also incentivize use to support adoption. Incentivizing use could take many forms,
such as expanded funding, increased reimbursement, or workforce training. HHS's early
investment in adopting these technologies would be justified, as more accurate claims could
reduce fraud, waste, and abuse. Additionally, it could lead to better patient health outcomes
and a more satisfied health care workforce, as health care providers would spend more time
using their training to provide direct patient care services rather than completing administrative
tasks.
3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise novel legal and
implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability structures ( e.g., relating to
liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel legal and implementation issues exist and
what role, if any, should HHS play to help address them?
The use of AI has yielded and will continue to raise novel legal issues related to liability,
indemnification, privacy, and security.9 The potential of these issues alone has been enough to
8 Alec Tyson, et al., 60% of Americans Would Be Uncomfortable With Provider Relying on AI in Their Own
Health Care, Pew Research Center (Feb. 22, 2023). Available at:
https://www.pewresearch.org/science/2023/02/22/60-of-americans-would-be-uncomfortable-with-
provider-relying-on-ai-in-their-own-health-care/.
9 See Nithesh Naik, et al., Legal and Ethical Consideration in Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare: Who Takes
Responsibility?, 9 Frontiers in Surgery 1 (2023). Available at:
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8963864/. See also Clara Cestonaro, et al., Defining Medical
Liability When Artificial Intelligence Is Applied on Diagnostic Algorithms: A Systematic Review, 10 Frontiers in
5

keep certain entities and health care providers from utilizing any AI-embedded technologies in
their practice. As such, HHS will have to address these concerns to support greater adoption of
these technologies. APhA encourages HHS to provide additional guidance and standards for
the use of AI to better inform pharmacists, other health care providers, and those working in
health care entities about appropriate use. HHS could also partner with professional health care
associations, such as APhA, to accredit and certify AI-embedded technologies and their
providers through educational training to ensure users know they are accurate and properly
vetted.
To support the adoption of AI in non-clinical areas, HHS could also consider using its
enforcement discretion to ease penalties for errors that do not involve patient health or patient
information. For example, by recognizing the benefits of AI-embedded technologies for
administrative tasks such as billing, HHS could reduce fines or penalties associated with errors
in the early stages of adoption.
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities ( e.g., accreditation, certification, industry-driven
testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in clinical care?
As mentioned above, pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, other pharmacy personnel, other
health care providers, and those working for health care entities all need to know how to use AI
appropriately and which AI-embedded technologies are safe for their roles. HHS can accredit
and certify AI-embedded technologies and their providers, giving health care providers and
entities confidence that these technologies have been appropriately tested. As such, APhA
encourages HHS to work with the private sector, such as APhA, to ensure that the products
used to provide care by health care providers, such as pharmacists, and the processes associated
with pharmacy and pharmacy services claims are appropriately reviewed. The more ways HHS
can assure pharmacists and other health care providers of the standards for using these
technologies and of how associated risks have been mitigated, the greater the trust they will
have in using them.
6. Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and cost expectations and
where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools would have the greatest potential to improve
health care outcomes, give new insights on quality, and help reduce costs?
There are many areas where AI algorithms and technologies have been embedded into
pharmacy practice to automate tasks, improve clinical decision-making, and promote patient
Medicine 1 (2023). Available at:
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10711067/#:~:text=Absence%20of%20clinical%20AI%20related,
AI%2Ddeveloper's%20liability%20is%20unclear.
6

engagement.10 These technologies are used to assist with prescription verification, dosing of
high-risk medications, processing handwritten and faxed prescriptions, adherence monitoring,
and outreach to patients about refills and appointment scheduling. As the adoption of AI
expands into pharmacy practice, APhA opposes replacing a pharmacist’s professional judgment
or a patient’s access to their pharmacist with AI. APhA calls on HHS to develop regulations,
standards, and policies to promote the use of AI while ensuring patients still have access to the
trusted advice and care provided by their local pharmacist.
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care organizations have the most
influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the primary administrative hurdles to the
adoption of AI in clinical care?
Federal agencies, including HHS, should work with state boards of pharmacy to ensure that AI
is properly integrated into pharmacies and into the care pharmacists provide. Boards of
pharmacy play a significant role in outlining the scope of practice for pharmacists and
pharmacy technicians, as well as the corresponding legal boundaries, which could affect the use
of AI-embedded technologies by those working in pharmacies. Boards of pharmacy also often
license these individuals and may require continuing education to maintain pharmacist
licensure. HHS should partner with state boards of pharmacy to ensure that all pharmacists and
pharmacy technicians receive training on AI-embedded technologies, their appropriate uses,
and potential risks. APhA encourages HHS to consider the interplay between potential AI
regulations and state scope-of-practice laws to ensure that pharmacists can judiciously use AI in
their practice while complying with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and accelerate the
development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types, data standards, and benchmarking
tools.
By enhancing interoperability, pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, and pharmacy personnel
will have greater access to the patient’s electronic health record. This not only provides
pharmacists with additional medical information to deliver better patient care but also gives
other health care providers greater insight into the patient’s medication history. One study
found that patients reported 43% of medications in their electronic health records were
inaccurate, with 29% discontinued and 14% changed.11 Greater access to these records will help
10 Craig Kimble, et al., Intelligent Pharmacy Leveraging AI and Automation to Enhance Patient Care and
Pharmacist Roles, 14 Pharmacy Times 1 (Sept. 19, 2025). Available at:
https://www.pharmacytimes.com/view/intelligent-pharmacy-leveraging-ai-and-automation-to-enhance-
patient-care-and-pharmacist-
roles#:~:text=AI%20and%20Automation%20in%20Today's,errors%20and%20enabling%20faster%20turnar
ound..
11 Maria Staroselsky, et al., An Effort to Improve Electronic Health Record Medication List Accuracy Between
Visits: Patients’ and Physicians’ Response, 77 International Journal of Medical Informatics 153 (2008).
7

both prescribers and pharmacists avoid duplicate therapies, address adherence concerns,
minimize adverse reactions, and ensure the medications a patient is taking correspond to an
appropriate condition or disease state. APhA supports efforts to enhance interoperability,
allowing pharmacists to access electronic health information from other health care providers
and to share patient health information collected at the pharmacy with them. As a reminder,
APhA commented on ONC's proposed rule, “Health Data, Technology, and
Interoperability: Patient Engagement, Information Sharing, and Public Health Interoperability.”
Within this proposed rule, ONC moved to incorporate the Public Health Service Act (PHSA)
section 3000 definition of “pharmacist” into the definition of “health care provider” for
information-blocking purposes. APhA “commend[ed] ONC for taking steps to enhance the
interoperability of EHI amongst health care providers” and “support[ed] pharmacists being
recognized as providers in relation to information-blocking regulations discussed in the
proposed rule as long as pharmacists also have access to EHI to ensure the delivery of
pharmacist-provided patient care services [emphasis added].” APhA also requested ONC to
require other health care providers and developers of health IT certified under the final rules to
be prohibited from information blocking EHI to pharmacists and penalize developers for doing
so. APhA reiterates these points as it is urgent that pharmacists gain real-time access to essential
electronic health information of their patients because information blocking causes delays in
patient care and prevents health care providers from having a complete picture of the patient’s
health, which can lead to inefficient and ineffective care.
9. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see addressed by the adoption
and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do patients and caregivers have related to the
adoption and use of AI in clinical care?
Patients and caregivers are concerned that greater adoption of AI will reduce their interactions
with trusted pharmacists and other health care providers.12 Pharmacists are consistently rated
among the most trusted professionals, and millions of patients rely on their expertise each year
to manage their conditions.13 Given the accessibility of pharmacies, pharmacists are often
viewed as the first line of care for patients with minor ailments and conditions, especially in
rural and underserved areas, where pharmacists may be the only readily available health care
provider. As such, APhA urges HHS to ensure that the adoption of AI does not interfere with a
patient’s access to their pharmacist. Ideally, the adoption of AI enables pharmacists to provide
Available at:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1386505607000470#:~:text=This%20study%20confir
ms%20earlier%20reports,and%2014%25%20having%20been%20changed.
12 Alec Tyson, et al., 60% of Americans Would Be Uncomfortable With Provider Relying on AI in Their Own
Health Care, Pew Research Center (Feb. 22, 2023). Available at:
https://www.pewresearch.org/science/2023/02/22/60-of-americans-would-be-uncomfortable-with-
provider-relying-on-ai-in-their-own-health-care/.
13 Megan Brenan, Nurses Continue to Lead in Honesty and Ethics Ratings, Gallup (Jan. 12, 2026). Available at:
https://news.gallup.com/poll/700736/nurses-continue-lead-honesty-ethics-ratings.aspx.
8

more direct patient care without compromising patient safety or the quality of their interactions
with patients.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit comments on this notice. If you have any questions or
would like to meet with APhA and our nation’s pharmacists, please contact Corey Whetzel,
APhA’s Senior Manager, Regulatory Affairs, at cwhetzel@aphanet.org.
Sincerely,
Michael Baxter
Vice President, Government Affairs
9