Comments of
The Health Record Banking Alliance
In response to
Department of Health and Human Services
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Request for Information – Health Technology Ecosystem
Reference File Code CMS–0042–NC
Submitted June 14, 2025 via http://www.regulations.gov
Our country now has technology using FHIR to integrate health information around each
patient. Integrating encounter records around the patient is far more efficient than the present,
historically established non-system that stores patient records in scattered pieces among various
hospital and medical office EHR databases.
FHIR technology thus can lead to a new system design featuring lifetime health records
each patient owns and controls, and are exchangeable interoperably and securely. These are
explicit 21st Century Cures Act goals; they are mandatory, and they have effectively been ignored
over the last four years by ASTP/ONC in its TEFCA implementation.
To accomplish what the Cures Act demands, CMS and ONC have the opportunity and
obligation to adopt a national health data architecture based on private sector Cures Act
Repository/Health Data Banks (“Cures Act Repositories” or “HDBs”). Accounts in those
repositories (similar to financial checking accounts) will hold patients’ lifetime, “longitudinal,”
problem-oriented health records. Patients, clinicians, and researchers whom patients want to
support all will benefit, as we explain below.
A national health data architecture designed this way will dramatically enhance the
security, efficiency, and capacity of health information flows in the United States. It will fulfill
Cures Act specifications.
CMS should note that those mandatory specifications will go unfulfilled unless
ASTP/ONC’s current plans for implementing the Cures Act’s TEFCA mandate are redirected to
the HDB/Cures Act Repository-based architecture and system design we propose here.
These comments, filed by the Health Record Banking Alliance (“HRBA”)1 explain how
CMS, in concert with ASTP/ONC and other agencies, can accomplish this re-working of our
national health data architecture. All of the technology to make it work exists. FHIR solves data
format issues for storage and exchange, and Trust Over IP provides the tools to handle
encryption-decryption, messaging, and key management; and multiple NIST IAL2 certified
identity management companies provide verifiable identity management for patients. Once the
HDB/Cures Act Repository-based architecture is in place and its adoption begins, the system
1 The Health Record Banking Alliance, P.O. Box 6580, Falls Church, Virginia 22040, is
recognized as a business league by the Internal Revenue Service under Section 501(c)(6) of
the Internal Revenue Code.

design can expand to create new efficiencies for high-capacity digital exchange of health data
among health industry institutions. The systems design thus can accommodate institutional needs
for secure exchange of interoperable data for TPO (Treatment, Payment, and Health Care
Operations) that are necessary to complement HIPAA standard transactions for billing and
related functions.
However, if CMS in concert with other agencies cannot dissuade ASTP/ONC from its
current flawed concept for implementing TEFCA, then ASTP/ONC and CMS will continue
pouring resources into an inefficient, insecure, and otherwise unworkable version of TEFCA.
Not incidentally, that concept of TEFCA contravenes the Cures Act’s overarching policy goal of
patients’ control of their health records. It also patently violates the Act’s explicit high-level
engineering specifications that compel a new health data architecture for the nation.
The result would be another lost decade in the heretofore elusive quest for health data
exchangeability, interoperability, security, and all the benefits those attributes will bring – the
goal set out by CMS in the instant RFI:
. . . to implement certain policies to enhance the amount of health data available through
digital channels and give patients secure, electronic access to their personal health
information. These policies are the building blocks of a digital ecosystem in which
patients can view, manage, utilize, and share their health information through digital
applications (apps) and other modern solutions. This digital ecosystem could ultimately
expand access to personalized health guidance for patients to improve prevention and
chronic disease management. CMS, Request of Information; Health Technology
Ecosystem, 90 Fed. Reg. 21034, 21035 (May 16, 2025).
The following analysis addresses questions posed in the RFI by answering in terms of an overall
systems analysis of the architectural challenge CMS is presenting. We have not sought to answer
each designated question separately.
What Is a Cures Act Repository/Health Data Bank and
What National Ecosystem Can Result from Adoption of CAR/HDBs?
Appendix 1 is a graphic with accompanying text explanation of a Health Data Bank and
the highly efficient, expanded data flows it enables.
Appendix 2 is a graphic presentation of the health data ecosystem that can result once a
HDB/Cures Act Repository-based architecture is implemented through redirection of
ASTP/ONC and CMS policy to comport with the Cures Act specifications described in the
previous section.
These two appendices will help orient readers to the discussion that follows.
Cures Act Mandatory Specifications for
A Patient-Owned and -Controlled Lifetime Health Record
Promises were made but not kept in the 21st Century Cures Act. A key Congressional goal
– a fundamental Cures Act promise – is assuring patients access to their electronic health
-2-

information “in a single, longitudinal format that is easy to understand, secure, and may be
updated automatically.” (HITECH new §3009(e)(2)(A) as added by Cures Act §4006; emphasis
added.)
The 21st Century Cures Act was signed into law on December 13, 2016. Yet to date, years
later, no executive action at HHS or ASTP/ONC realistically implements the explicit design
specifications that the Cures Act prescribes. Questions arise.
First, “Where is the patient?” Second: “Where is the physician?”
And a third question, fundamental to national security: Why is ASTP/ONC implementing
a national health data infrastructure based on Qualified Health Information Networks (QHINs)
that will be inefficient, inordinately complex and troublesome in terms of connectivity and
operating protocols, difficult for patients and physicians to use, and fundamentally insecure and
inherently vulnerable to continuous attack by hostile actors?
Contrast these difficulties with what is envisioned in the Cures Act, set out in detail
below. Text in blue underscores TEFCA design imperatives for data integration around each
patient. Systems designed to meet these specifications must, realistically, be integral to
engineering plans from the beginning of implementation. They cannot effectively be layered on
later. This is one aspect of the reality that condemns ASTP/ONC’s current TEFCA design to
failure.
The Cures Act says:
 EHR data exchange must not be implemented by ASTP/ONC in ways that “are likely to
substantially increase the complexity or burden” of access to, or exchange of, health
information. (HITECH new section 3022(a)(2)(B) as added by Cures Act section 4004;
emphasis added.) This provision, which necessarily imposes a specific requirement for
nationwide standardized exchange, cannot be satisfied by ONC’s TEFCA architecture.
 EHR data must be exchangeable “without special effort” on the part of users. (Patients
and physicians are among “users” under the Cures Act.) (HITECH as amended, new
§3000(10)(A), as added by Cures Act section 4003(a); emphasis added.)
 EHR data exchange must provide the patient or an authorized designee with a complete
copy of his or her health information from an electronic record in a computable format.
(HITECH new §3000(10)(B) as added by Cures Act section 4003; emphasis added.)
 EHR systems must be capable of exchanging health data with “clinician-led clinical data
registries” that are “designed to collect detailed, standardized data . . . for medical
procedures, services, or therapies for particular diseases, conditions or exposures,” and
that meet data quality standards including “using standardized data elements . . . to verify
the completeness and validity of those data.” (Cures Act §4005(a),(b).)
 ONC is specifically empowered using system certification criteria to support offering
“patient access to their electronic health information in a single, longitudinal format that
is easy to understand, secure, and may be updated automatically” and supports patients’
ability to add “patient-reported information” electronically as well as patients’ access (at
-3-

each patient’s option) for research purposes. (HITECH new section 3009(e)(2)(A) as
added by Cures Act section 4006; emphasis added.)
A notable feature of ASTP/ONC’s QHIN TEFCA architecture is how thoroughly it
disregards these Cures Act engineering design specifications. ASTP/ONC thus fails to meet
Congress’s Cures Act goal of giving patients a computable, complete, easy to understand,
automatically updated, lifetime health record in a secure, easy to understand format that patients
can obtain without special effort and where the data exchange with Electronic Medical Record
(EMR) systems in hospitals and physician offices can be accomplished without substantially
increase[ing] the complexity or burden of accessing and exchanging data with those institutional
systems.
Among the fallout from ASTP/ONC’s failure to follow Cures Act specifications are the
following basic system design concerns:
 Patient Access. Patient access to their medical data in institutional EMR systems
through ASTP/ONC’s QHIN architecture is, as a practical matter, not possible
now and not likely to be possible in any reasonable view of the future.
 Patient Complexity. ASTP/ONC’s QHIN architecture – if it ever were to be
successfully engineered – will be so complex and burdensome for patients to
navigate that they will not use it.
 Provider Access. Similarly, providers will not use ASTP/ONC’s QHIN
architecture because of the time-consuming and costly burdens of querying
QHINs to assemble a patient’s scattered records, and then going through elaborate
procedures to assure that the records they are seeking and receiving apply to the
patient they are treating, and not to one or more other patients.
 Data Quality and Reliability. Cobbling together patient records on the fly at a
point of care, which is the operational mode that ASTP/ONC’s QHIN architecture
envisions, is an invitation to data quality problems. In contrast, compiling data as
we propose in Cures Act Repositories affords consistent processes. There will be
Cures Act Repository software systems to analyze each patient’s data; identify,
flag, and resolve conflicts in data; and organize the data in problem-oriented
records. These features will aid physicians and other clinicians at each point of
care that a patient visits.
 Patient Identification. As we explain in Appendix 1, the description of a
representative Cures Act Repository, the repository architecture will significantly
mitigate patient matching problems for patients with repository accounts (akin to
customer identification with financial institution accounts). In contrast,
ASTP/ONC’s QHIN architecture will be plagued by them.
 Clinical Data to Support Medical Research. Also as explained in Appendix 1,
Cures Act repository architecture will be designed so patients can contribute their
medical data to support research they care about. Data flows in Cures Act
Repository architecture facilitate patients’ sending all or part of their data,
whether identified or anonymized, to researchers whose work they support.
-4-

Medical research today requires hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of vetted
patient records. With that volume of records, advanced computational methods,
including those using artificial intelligence (AI), can be employed to analyze vast
troves of data. Many patients will want to support such research. They will learn
about opportunities of interest through notification systems that Cures Act
Repositories will establish. Researchers will use those notification systems to
publicize their work and to request patient data they need to support their
research. (Note that ASTP/ONC’s QHIN architecture is so complex, operationally
burdensome, and fragmented that it will stand as a barrier to patients’ support of
medical research.)
 Scalability. ASTP/ONC’s QHIN architecture cannot support the continuing and
massive data loads its operations envision. The data loads come from continuous
“scattered system queries” relating to patients presenting at points of care. There
will then be responsive system messages seeking to clarify and verify patient
identity. Those message exchanges will be followed, in theory, by QHIN data base
responses for fully identified patients. Those responses will be sent, supposedly
immediately, to requesting clinicians at points of care. The network loads imposed
by these processes explain why ASTP/ONC’s QHIN architecture cannot operate
at scale.
These problems compound a fundamental economic policy problem arising from
ASTP/ONC’s ignoring Cures Act requirements: the private sector is not encouraged, but rather is
discouraged, by federal policy from pursuing application programming interfaces (APIs) to
support patient-centered lifetime health records aggregated and stored in Cures Act Repositories.
Similarly, ASTP/ONC’s policy divergence from the Cures Act discourages support for
private sector development of software systems for Cures Act Repositories. Private sector
technology design is important as well for secure point-to-point, FHIR-based exchange that will
work hand-in-glove with Cures Act Repositories and enable their utility and proliferation. These
private sector activities are integral to reforming health data exchange as the Cures Act envisions
and demands.
TEFCA Architectural Implementation:
Contrast Between Integration of Data Around Each Patient Versus
ASTP/ONC’s Current, Inefficient, Unworkable Model of Patients’ Data
Remaining Scattered Among Institutional EHR Databases
The following tables and annotations compare how an architecture for health information
centered around patient-controlled accounts in Cures Act Repositories/HDBs will revolutionize
information flows for care, provider convenience, and overall health system efficiency.
-5-

Tractable vs.
Intractable, Centered ~ Cures Act Scattered ~ ASTP/ONC Current
Centered vs. Repository/HRB Model TEFCA Model
Scattered
Single designated and secure system
which is:
 Patient-controlled and provider Patient data/records are managed
neutral across 10s and 100s of HINs and
 Maintained by a trusted custodian 1000s of systems/ devices, each of
organization which maintains/manages:
Basics Where the patient or their  Trusted software and storage
representative:  Accountability, authentication,
 Maintains unique ID, account and authorization, consents, access
address control, audit mechanisms
 Designates a single place to  Some fragment of the patient record
send/store their records, e.g., after
each encounter
Query is directed to a single Broadcast query goes to 10s or 100s
Query designated Repository/HRB account of HINs, then on to 1000s, 10,000s,
for the identified patient 100,000s of systems/devices
 Response may be nothing, trickle or
 Response is immediate deluge
 All relevant and permitted records  Response content may vary with
are immediately available each query
Query response  Responses are in searchable  Response may take minutes, hours
Problem-Oriented Health Records or days
 You immediately know what you  You don’t know what you don’t
need to know know
 You don’t know how long to wait
Managed at a single point by each Managed within a complex lattice of
Confidentiality/
patient and/or patient provider and HIN permissions plus
Authorization
representative/coach patient consents
Sustained (24 x 7) support for
Real-time +
individual health and healthcare – Never, never land
Continuous
monitoring and guidance
A Center for the Individual – Making Data Integration Around the Patient a Reality
 No amount of information standards, policy frameworks or common agreements will answer
these “Scatter Model” conundrums.
 The problem that needs solving is making the 'center' real: by creating the system that
promotes and serves the individual.
 Providers then interact with that system as a routine part of care and as part of the duty of
care, contributing to a persistent, coherent record of an individual's overall health and care,
their journey and path forward.
 Providers make use of that record problem-oriented when needed – without recourse to
interactions with other institutions.
-6-

 Providers continue to operate their own EHR/HIT systems for their own purposes –
established as their business record – capturing the operational details of the care they
provide and activities they perform.
A Center for the Centered Scattered
Individual – Effectiveness
of the Centered Model
Information Practices, Governance
Rules and Logs • Consistent, uniformly Across multiple source
• User authentication implemented systems/devices,
• Authorization, consents • Can be controlled by patient, HINs/QHINs:
for information sharing patient representative/coach • Disparate conventions,
• Access control policies, governance
• Minimum necessary and Always: • Controlled by multiple
“need to know” • Visible to patient entities
• Audit events • Visible to clinicians, as • Unevenly implemented
• Data exchange events permitted Rules are:
• Mostly invisible to
patient
• Mostly invisible to
clinicians
Personal Parameters
Personal • Consistent, uniformly Across multiple source
• IDs, identity implemented systems/devices,
parameters • Visible and can be managed HINs/QHINs:
• Demographics by patient, patient • Disparate conventions,
• Genetics representative/ coach policies, governance
• Health Data Use • Controlled by multiple
Directives entities
• Patient Reported • Unevenly implemented
Outcomes
• Social determinants
of health
• Insurance, coverage
• Next of kin
• Advance directives,
health-related
consents
-7-

A Center for the Centered Scattered
Individual – Effectiveness
of the Centered Model
Clinical Findings
Current and Historical Patient data in one place Patient data in multiple
• Encounters • Can be monitored directly by disparate fragments across
• Personal and family health the patient multiple source systems/
history & physical • Can be annotated or corrected devices, HINs/QHINs
findings by the patient Multiple portals and/or
• Vital signs repeated “pulls” to gather
• Assessments “current” view
• Progress notes
• Care records
• Diagnostic results
Coordinated Care
Current and Historical Uniform, integrated Patient data in multiple
• Care Plan(s) • All patient data disparate fragments across
• Orders • All providers multiple source systems/
• Therapies • All activities devices, HINs/QHINs
• Consults • Past, present, future Multiple portals and/or
• Referrals In real-time, patient can: repeated “pulls” to gather
• Schedules • Monitor data and actions “current” view
• Appointments + • Be prompted to take actions
followup • Complete and document
• Messages, interactions actions taken
with caregivers
Reconciled Lists
Current and Historical Patient data in one place. Patient data in multiple
• Medications In real-time, patient can: disparate fragments across
• Problems, conditions • Monitor data and actions multiple source systems/
• Allergies, intolerances • Curate lists devices, HINs/QHINs
• Immunizations • Be prompted to take actions Multiple portals and/or
• Immunization forecast • Complete and document repeated “pulls” to gather
• Procedures and actions taken “current” view
interventions
ASTP/ONC seeks to explain its QHIN plans by noting the Cures Act requirement “to
avoid the disruption of existing exchanges between participants of health information networks.”
Section 4003 of the Cures Act (amending Section 3001(c)(9) of the Public Health Service Act)
does indeed require ONC to preserve capabilities for exchanging health information among at
least some existing networks. It is to do this in part by establishing what has become TEFCA.
But there is no requirement to preserve exchange capability among all existing networks.
And no requirement to cobble together the new networks that are QHINs.
-8-

Specifically, ASTP/ONC is not required to preserve any particular network in TEFCA’s
architecture. It is sufficient in TEFCA to preserve health data exchange that includes interchange
of data with EMR (Electronic Medical Record) networks in hospitals and physician offices. That
is enough to satisfy the statute.
Besides being a statutory truism, this is important as a practical matter; for many existing
health exchange networks are only marginally functional. Those that have managed to collect
individual patient data and maintain it in centralized records may at some point in the future be
in position to enhance their capabilities to become Cures Act Repositories.
How can ASTP/ONC most efficiently fulfill the Cures Act’s requirement “to avoid the
disruption of existing exchanges between participants of health information networks?” Answer:
By replacing point-to-point fax exchanges among EMR networks in hospitals and physician
offices with FHIR-based, trusted, point-to-point network messages. Establishing directories of
authenticated FHIR endpoints for such exchanges will include mechanisms for identity proofing,
credentialing, and authorization of senders and recipients. This architecture is efficient, avoiding
unnecessary complexity, security vulnerabilities, and costs.
To summarize: QHINs are unnecessary for any of TEFCA purposes as defined by the
Cures Act. Indeed, inserting QHINs as unnecessary intermediaries between message endpoints
adds useless cost and complexity while achieving no discernable function. In the process,
inserting superfluous intermediary nodes and systems gratuitously multiplies attack surfaces and
related security risks.
It is apparent that ASTP/ONC’s QTF architecture is based on mis-reading the Cures Act’s
policy mandates and technical specifications. Inserting QHINs in digital health data exchanges is
centered around medical institutions. It fails to elevate patients’ powers to use and control their
health information through a data architecture utilizing Cures Act repositories.
Overview of Enhanced Data Flows from a
Cures Act Repository-Based Architecture
Each consumer has the right under HIPAA to designate a representative, including an
online entity such as a Cures Act Repository/Health Data Bank, to receive, in digital form, a
copy of their institutional (hospital or medical office) health record. If the patient so requests via
a HIPAA authorization, this can include a copy of each subsequent provider encounter report.
These records, presumably henceforth in FHIR format, can be aggregated, normalized, and
stored securely in a Cures Act Repository/Health Data Bank account. For this purpose the Cures
Act specifies:
The Secretary shall use existing authorities [...] with the goal of offering patients access
to their electronic health information in a single, longitudinal format that is easy to
understand, secure, and may be updated automatically.
Parents can make this choice of a Cures Act Repository for their children. Adults can
-9-

choose a Cures Act Repository in the marketplace, and change their chosen repository at any
time and for any reason.
Each organization offering Cures Act Repository/Health Data Bank account services
must attest that it adheres to key principles of data privacy and security best practices. HRBA has
long advocated for federal legislation to establish a nationwide regulatory structure to promote
the development of Cures Act Repository/Health Data Banks, and to prevent bad actors from
entering the HDB industry. In the absence of federal legislation, a health data bank that fails to
adopt and adhere to industry-wide voluntary codes of conduct – and, frankly, that is operated to
scam consumers – will likely be subject to investigation and enforcement action by state and
local law enforcement agencies, by various law enforcement agencies, and by the Federal Trade
Commission or HHS Office of Civil Rights. Intentional violations will offer prospects for
criminal prosecution.
Congress’s passing legislation to establish a nationwide regulatory structure now is
highly desirable. Consumer and clinician trust will be essential to the emergence of Cures Act
Repository/Health Data Banks as a structural feature of the nation’s health data exchange
architecture.
Whenever a patient receives a healthcare-related service from a hospital, medical office,
or other provider, a record of that encounter will (because of the patient’s HIPAA authorization
and request) be sent electronically and in FHIR format to the account in their designated Cures
Act Repository/Health Data Bank (unless the patient specifies otherwise).
When seeing a new provider, the patient can send the provider all or excerpted parts of
their problem-oriented and normalized, aggregated record from their Cures Act Repository/
account. Alternatively, the patient can furnish the provider with access to all or a specified subset
of their Cures Act Repository account. Either way, this system design enables the patient to
supply the provider with essential information in useful formats, and promotes both provider
convenience and comprehensive care.
Because the patient’s lifetime record is available in one secure HDB account, in
standardized FHIR format and normalized, online services offered by a Cures Act Repository or
by external consulting services (some presumably by way of secure APIs) can furnish clinical
guidance, help patients navigate care, or facilitate participation of patients in clinical
research. They can obtain data from a patient’s Cures Act Repository rather than having to query
the patient or request access to various healthcare organizations’ data systems where the patient
has received care. A patient can also grant access to some or all of their Cures Act Repository
lifetime record to family or other personal caregivers, to allow them to participate in the patient’s
care.
Subsequently, when healthcare providers use their EHR systems to access data available
from a patient’s aggregated and normalized Cures Act Repository account, the record (or a
designated portion of it) will already be in a form that allows quick, accurate identification of
elements relevant to the current patient encounter. It will be searchable. The patients’ Cures Act
Repository services or third-party curation services of the patient's choice can enhance the record
to increase its usability for effective care and for the patient’s understanding.
-10-

Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources
Enable Cures Act Repository Architecture
With the advent of Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources, the technology at last is
available to extract medical records conveniently and affordably from electronic medical record
(EMR) systems siloed in hospitals and physicians’ offices. Standardized FHIR can make the
process of extraction from the variety of EHR systems routine, efficient, and reliable. The
resulting Cures Act records can then be moved into Cures Act Repository/Health Data Banks.
The architecture we recommend as a principal objective achieves dual interrelated
objectives: first, extracting and then moving medical records efficiently; second, doing so in a
way that encourages development of lifetime, problem-oriented Cures Act records stored in
Cures Act Repositories under patients’ control and ownership.
Institutions will retain their own medical records to document their processes with
respect to each patient. This is a consequence of legal requirements in all states as well as for
many federal purposes; and it is a practical necessity for operational purposes. Some institutions
may create segregated or partitioned areas in their EHR systems to allow clinicians’ viewing of
imported Cures Act Records but without adding those imported records to the institution’s own
patient records. This may be done to preserve an institution’s control over the data integrity of its
internally generated records while allowing its clinicians to benefit from information in a
patient’s problem-oriented, up-to-data, searchable Cures Act Record.
Cures Act Repositories will be software-driven service centers for patients. Patients will
use them to hold consolidated health record accounts they own, control, and use. The repositories
will be somewhat akin to financial institutions. They will offer software systems to aggregate
medical records from different providers into “lifetime” or “longitudinal,” problem-oriented
health record accounts. Patients will use their aggregated medical records to facilitate
interactions with the health system writ large. Patients will, for example, be able to use
repository software to direct their medical record data or portions of it to providers caring for
them or to researchers whose work they want to support.
We expect Cures Act repositories to be basic structural components of a newly capable
national health data exchange system centered around patients. (As we have said above, the most
efficient way to organize medical data is to integrate it around each patient. The proposition is
self-justifying.)
Networks to move patient data into and out of Cures Act Repository accounts – for
example, to points of care in hospitals or physician offices, whether in routine or emergency
circumstances – will function by using directories of authenticated FHIR endpoints for point-to-
point exchanges. Patients, patient repository accounts, hospitals, physicians and physician
offices, and pharmacies are examples of network destinations that will be authenticated and
credentialed as FHIR endpoints.
FHIR is undergoing a continuing process of expansion and standardization. Its reach is
being extended into more detailed areas of general medical practice and into medical specialties.
This work is being accomplished by Health Level 7 (HL7), a standards development
organization (see https://confluence.hl7.org/display/HL7/Understanding+the+Standards+Process;
see also https://www.healthit.gov/topic/standards-technology/standards/fhir). HL7’s ongoing
-11-

development of FHIR could be accelerated significantly via federal funding to implement
existing Cures Act goals and engineering specifications.
FHIR is essentially becoming the national health data exchange standard. Having such a
standard is a long-sought technology goal. FHIR is what enables engineers today to design data
extraction and exchange architecture organized around the patient. As we have pointed out, this
is in contrast to continuing to store patient records only in data systems scattered in various
hospitals and physician offices.
A patient-centered data architecture will significantly improve information flows
throughout medical care and research institutions. It will offer diagnostic and treatment
efficiencies to clinicians, while easing their record-keeping burdens. It will simplify design of
institutional data administration, and improve data exchange throughout and among health care
institutions. It will improve care and greatly accelerate progress in medical research.
A FHIR-based Cures Act Repository architecture, with health data integrated around
patients, represents a fundamental shift from institutionally organized legacy systems and
architectures. The legacy systems are incapable of efficiently organizing and exchanging digital
health data on a state, regional, or national basis.
The repositories can be private-sector or government-sponsored.
Patients who opt not to store their aggregated medical records in Cures Act Repositories
will still enjoy the advantages of this streamlined system. Clinicians at points of care can make
secure point-to-point queries to various providers that patients identify. That way they can obtain
records from those sources via credentialed point-to-point messaging.
What does this straightforward system design based on the Cures Act offer? The
architecture, based on patients’ lifetime health records, exchangeable via digital point-to-point
messaging, is relatively secure (compared to current security architectures) and simplified. It is
operationally effective and cost-effective for nationwide use.
Of special significance: A Cures Act Repository architecture is a ready digital
replacement for facsimile exchange of health data. (That is so even though secure messaging is
slowly replacing fax.) This should be a central CMS and ASTP/ONC goal, because fax today,
obsolete though it may seem, remains the de facto method for moving medical records in the U.S.
Enormous benefits in care, research, health equity, public health, and cost control will
flow from this conversion.
This all contrasts with the experience of some large employers that sought to slow
escalating workforce healthcare and health insurance costs. They hoped to do this by using
medical record system consolidation to improve the health of their employees and their families
(and thus reduce overall health insurance costs). In other words, major employers hoped to
develop comprehensive medical record systems that members of their workforces would use –
the assumption being that such use would result in improved health. In almost all cases, those
efforts failed, some spectacularly and with great attention from the press.
-12-

The cause underlying these failures was not a clash of corporate cultures or similar public
relations explanations. Rather, it was that employers’ experimental data systems had no ability, at
scale, to extract health records from scattered institutional EHR data bases in hospitals and
medical offices. The proposed systems lacked the capacity to move data out of those institutional
EHR systems and into employee health record accounts. Without that capability, the
experimental employer systems could not aggregate and compile lifetime patient data, in useful
form, that their employees would trust and use.
The Cures Act architecture we propose addresses these problems directly, and solves
them.
Conclusion
CMS asks questions that bring to the fore opportunities to use FHIR technology to
revolutionize health information data flows. The key is to use technology to support integrating
health data round each patient. To do this requires a system architecture with Cures Act
Repository/Health Data Banks as an essential structural element of the health information
infrastructure. Cures Act Repository/Health Data Banks will serve as the vehicle to receive
copies of health data from multiple sources, aggregate and normalize it, and hold the constantly
updated, lifetime records in secure accounts that patients own, control and use.
Respectfully submitted,
The Health Record Banking Alliance
By
Richard D. Marks
Vice President
richard.marks@healthbanking.org
-13-

Comments of
The Health Record Banking Alliance
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Request for Information – Health Technology Ecosystem
Reference File Code CMS–0042–NC
Appendix 1
Cures Act Health Data Bank Personal Health Record Schematic and Explanatory Text
Health Record Banking Alliance
Organizing Health Data Around the Patient Using All data exchange, both sending and receiving, follows the 21stCentury Cures Act interoperability
New 21stCentury Cures Act Interoperability Rules rules (the United States Core Data for Interoperability Standard) in 45 U.S.C. Part 170.
Health Data Bank National Systems Design Overview Schematic
Patients grant full or Patients can
partial PHR access to Personal Health Record (PHR) transmit data
Electronic Health Record Systems c o sel fi n lc ei ac cr ti ea en dos r i n a tt fr o at rh n mse m ap tio it o in nt f✜ ✜ roS P me a c t i vu e ar ne rt i osr e ucp sa o n ds ocit o co tl or ley rc sf t o , a r na ge dgn hrc e or gy spp at it tee a,d l a s P n inH d tR oc o s ot mo nr p ea i llg ie fe et. th ie mir e m hee ad li tc ha l r ed ca ota rd . f t wr oo h rm oe ms t eh tae hri c er h yP e H rsR s Biomedical Researchers
A d Ca on t ry a e t dw Di aro e t o ac tr fl oym ru o Is nr ie n te gn r o othd pee e s rU ac n ba i itn le i te d yx S sc tth aaa ntn e dg s a e r d. to the clinician. r✜ ✜ ✜ecP P To ha a rt t edi i e e . “n n smt ts s ao c raw tn ”n a l ia d fen d td id m c ao etn a h t f er ro aol lm ta hc pc re ee r cs ss oo rt n do a it l sh o pe r ri r oh l boif lm ee mt eim -d oe e r v ih eic ne e ta eslt dth o t r ote h ac eo si sr r id s. t support. H P voHe la R ul nt ah tc a cD ro ia lu yt n a at sB h ka o tn l ok d s e b w r es i nl (l p o m a tit fa i iei en n dt t a asi ) bn w o li uhs tt o s of
doctors at the point of care. The smart record has search, artificial research projects in areas that interest
intelligence, error identification, and other analytics. them. An HDB will be a clearinghouse for
Hospital D Ooc fft io cr e’s D c h stl oo i an sc ni pt c do ii t aar a rs n l d, ss io , zt t a r eh an dne d r s mit P✜ ✜ ✜ ✜HS H A TRo rnse ec , ya ai g ola t tel n mh nD e c eo e o c nmt aa te ni c cr ch m s hhe , ra i s oan v n nca ea d on an lt f os sah gmmo e yf l a i p hlH ry ete p h lPa a pi Hl t s st i t Rh e con or( –t yS os p.D r du rO o in nH md a) e o ta er tr s e e it nsa i sn hn ud ec rl a aau l nn td h cde e d eu q c. s lue ai itt myh . se .ir smart t P w th ha ie ett his ie re an P r lt Hle s o Rs me r s a .sa er Tyc l h eh e ecl eo t decp at dp t t ao po r a c t f r au u t nn r s n i bot ii es fe h ts fh u. a e l lr yde ias de t eaa n r in tc ih fie er d
encounter reports, Sequestered archive so Separate area for (which is the most useful to researchers) or
D Oe ffn icta el Clinic i a tm hn eda g poe ats th, i e ela r n b td ’o a sr t Pa a Ht o t Ror . y p a seca nct ei se is tn s it v ts eo c ipa nn a for r t re i mcs ut ar l tai ic r ot ly n . p a ar sa t t mii ce l een dst’ io cs afn li o n lit tte e es rr aea tsn utd r( esu ).ch R He Ds Be a cr lec ah re ir ns g n ho ot uif sy es a Pn ato in ey nm tsi z (oe rd , o a ths et rh e co p na st uie mn et rd se ) c wid he os . supply
of research data to researchers fall under the Federal
Health Data Bank (HDB) Health Data Bank’s list o mp ap yo ir nt tu en ri eti se t s that P Suo blic jey c f to sr . the Protection of Human
Patient’s Trusted Agent of PHR account holders patients.
Pharmacy Other Security, credentialing, and PHR who want to be notified
Iterative data exchange access authentication are HDB of research projects in
between clinicians and services. areas of their interest.
researchers
Mandatory reports by providers
Federal, State, under existing public health
Local Public reporting statutes and As Health Data Banks become a significant industrial sector in U.S. healthcare, they will promote health equity,
Health Authorities r e ine x tg t eeu rnl oa t pt ai eo t rn t aas bi, n in la io tb yr l m e ru ua ln eliz sd .e e d r tt ho e t he improve public health reporting and response, and engage patients as never before to improve their health. Cop Ay llr rig igh ht t© s r e2 s0 e2 r3 v eH dR .BA
Note that patient accounts in this Cures Act Repository/Health Data Bank schematic have unique
patient identifiers. Those account numbers are analogous to depositors’ checking and savings
account numbers in financial institutions. For patients with Cures Act Repository/HDB accounts,
this feature significantly ameliorates, and may largely eliminate for patients using HDB
accounts, patient matching and attendant issues that are of great concern in other health data
architectures.
The business models of many Cures Act HDBs will likely include separately encrypting the
medical and other health records for each account holder. The system reason for separately
encrypting each account is to complicate and largely prevent successful hacking of HDB
accounts by hostile actors. Each account holder will be entrusted with the key to their encrypted
account. The HDB will have procedures so that recovery of misplaced, lost, or corrupted keys
will be possible for those account holders who desire that feature.
On the following page you will find additional explanatory text describing features and operation
of this Cures Act Repository/HDB schematic.
-14-

Health Record Banking Alliance
Organizing Health Data Around the Patient Using New
21st Century Cures Act Interoperability Rules
Health Data Bank National Systems Design Overview
A Health Data Bank (HDB, also called a Health Record Bank) is an integrated patient
information services institution. As a trusted agent, it offers a secure repository for each
individual to collect and compile their “interoperable” digital health information in a smart
Personal Health Record (PHR). Individuals own and control their Personal Health Records, as
in a bank checking account. With these new information flows, consumers will:
• exchange medical records and other health data in their Personal Health Records
conveniently with doctors’ offices and hospitals for better, faster care; improve patient
safety; and reduce information burden on physicians by supplying an aggregated,
lifetime, searchable medical record for easy and immediate reference.
• control Personal Health Record access for doctors and hospitals; family, friends, and
health coaches; medical researchers; members of the press; and others as they wish.
• use their Personal Health Records to help manage their health and healthcare, and to
help shop for doctors, hospitals, and health insurance.
• view their Personal Health Records on smartphones, tablets, and other computers.
Health Data Banks and Efficiency: Integrating health information around each patient via
HDBs is the most efficient way to aggregate and use “interoperable” health data under 21st
Century Cures Act regulations. It is far more efficient and useful than a collection of “apps.”
HRBA’s Education and Policy Advocacy: HRBA advocates government policies promoting
Health Data Banks as a major new structural sector in U.S. health care. This systems design
includes a national regulatory framework for Health Data Banks.
Health Data Banks and Health Equity: Health Data Banks will promote health equity because
everyone can have a Personal Health Record.
Health Data Banks as Medical Research Clearinghouses: Medical researchers cannot get
enough patient data to make fast or sufficient progress. HDBs can be clearinghouses between
patients and researchers. Patients can voluntarily list themselves with their HDBs to be
informed of research projects they are interested in, and to which they want to contribute or
sell their data. This also is a path to developing national federated diagnostic and research
databases while respecting patients’ privacy rights (because patients are in control). Better
research will improve treatment for acute, chronic, and orphan diseases.
Health Data Banks, Security, and Patient Matching: Security, credentialing, and patient
authentication and efficient matching are systems design features of HDBs
Advanced Features of Smart Personal Health Records: Systems design features such as
artificial intelligence (AI) and search capabilities, robust family history, and genomic analytics
will deliver problem-oriented data and analysis to mesh with clinicians’ Electronic Health
Record (EHR) systems at the point of care. Availability of this aggregated reference record
will reduce burdens on clinicians while impr -o 1v 5-i ng diagnosis, treatment, and patient outcomes.

Comments of
The Health Record Banking Alliance
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Request for Information – Health Technology Ecosystem
Reference File Code CMS–0042–NC
Appendix 2
Cures Act Repository/Health Data Bank-Based
Ecosystem Schematic
Based on Standardized FHIR
For Health Data Storage and Exchange
Note: Trust Over IP provides the tools to handle the encryption/decryption,
messaging, and key management in this storage and exchange architecture.
-16-