June 13, 2025
The Honorable Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Dr. Thomas Keane
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20201
Attention: CMS-0042-NC – Delivered Electronically
RE: Health Technology Ecosystem Request for Information [CMS-0042-NC; RIN 0938-
AV68]
Dear Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane:
Advocate Health appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information on
the Health Technology Ecosystem (the RFI), published in the Federal Register on May 16,
2025 (CMS-0042-NC).1 We are pleased to continue to partner with the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology
Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (“ASTP/ONC”)
on advancing key priorities – including enhancing data sharing and interoperability to
improve care coordination and patient outcomes. We appreciate your consideration of our
responses below.
ABOUT ADVOCATE HEALTH
Advocate Health is a leading nonprofit integrated health system headquartered in
Charlotte, North Carolina – providing care under the names Advocate Health Care in
Illinois, Atrium Health in North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama, and Aurora
Health Care in Wisconsin. Advocate Health is a national leader in clinical innovation,
health outcomes, patient experience, and value-based care. The Wake Forest University
School of Medicine serves as the academic core of our enterprise, and we engage in
hundreds of clinical trials and research studies across our system. Despite immense
challenges, our facilities maintain high quality scores as we serve more than 859,000
patients living in rural communities through the 20 rural hospitals and 387 rural clinics in
our health system. Our providers are dedicated to ensuring access to high quality care for
our rural patient population, with 2.5 million unique visits, 27,000 emergency department
visits, 40,000 surgeries, and 92,000 bedded discharges in our rural footprint last year.
1 90 FR 21034.

As part of our healing mission, Advocate Health also provides more than $6 billion in
annual community benefits and serves individuals, families, and communities across more
than 1,000 sites of care – including inpatient, outpatient, emergency, urgent, and home-
based care. We contribute to the health and well-being of the communities we serve in
many ways, including through the direct provision of charity care, free clinics and services,
community-based programs at no or low-cost, and financial and in-kind donations to
community nonprofits serving individuals and families in need. We support CMS’s and
ASTP/ONC’s goal of building a patient-centered healthcare ecosystem that improves health
management and care navigation and that produces better health outcomes for all
patients.
* * * * * * *
TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION
[TD-4] How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly
available Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) over proprietary APIs?
CMS can better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available APIs by
promulgating clear interoperability policies that require the adoption of open standards,
and that apply to healthcare providers, vendors, and payers. To encourage trust and
adoption of open standards, CMS would need to develop a certification and compliance
program. To ensure transparency and accountability, CMS should also require
organizations to disclose their API approaches. To develop a certification plan, CMS can
incorporate existing regulatory and technical frameworks. Here is a suggested approach,
based on current CMS initiatives and best practices.
1. Establish Clear Certification Objectives
CMS should define what the certification aims to achieve, such as:
• Ensure interoperability across healthcare systems.
• Promote patient access to health data.
• Encourage innovation through open APIs.
• Reduce administrative burden for providers and payers.
2. Leverage Existing Standards and Implementation Guides
CMS already mandates the use of specific standards under rules like the Interoperability
and Patient Access Final Rule (CMS-9115-F) and the Prior Authorization Final Rule (CMS-
0057-F). These include:
• HL7 FHIR Release 4.0.1
• US Core Implementation Guide (IG)
2

• SMART App Launch IG
• Bulk Data Access IG
Certification should conform to these standards and allow for updates approved by the
ONC Health IT Certification Program.
3. Define Certification Criteria and Testing Procedures
CMS can collaborate with ONC and industry stakeholders to define:
• Functional criteria (e.g., ability to retrieve patient data, support for prior
authorization workflows).
• Security and privacy requirements (e.g., OAuth 2.0, OpenID Connect).
• Performance benchmarks (e.g., response times, uptime).
• Testing tools and sandboxes for developers to validate their APIs.
4. Create a Certification Body or Partner with Existing Ones
CMS could:
• Establish a dedicated certification body.
• Partner with ONC’s Health IT Certification Program or third-party certifiers to
evaluate API implementations.
5. Incentivize Adoption
CMS could:
• Reduce reporting burdens for certified API use.
• Require certification for vendors in federal contracts.
[TD-5] How could a nationwide provider directory of Fast Healthcare Interoperability
Resources® (FHIR) endpoints improve access to health information for patients,
providers, and payers? Who should publish such a directory, and should users bear a
cost?
A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints would improve real-time interoperability
for patients, providers, and payers. A nationwide directory would also improve care
coordination by enabling providers to connect with other healthcare systems and by
minimizing or eliminating duplicative efforts in searching provider endpoints. Patients’
access to their health care data would also be enhanced, enabling patients to better
manage their own care. A nationwide directory would also help developers and health
3

technology companies, as they could leverage the directory to build applications that can
integrate seamlessly with other platforms.
A known, trusted, and neutral entity – such as CMS, ASTP/ONC, or an appropriate public-
private partnership – should maintain the directory. Patients, providers, and payers should
have free access to the nationwide directory to encourage use, and the directory could be
funded through government-provided interoperability grants and/or private sector
sponsorship of healthcare technology and other industry vendors.
INFORMATION BLOCKING
[PR-12] Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information
blocking exceptions or conditions within the exceptions to further the access,
exchange, and use of electronic health information and to promote market
competition?
We believe the information blocking regulations largely balance the goal of supporting
information sharing for the patient’s benefit with providing critical and necessary
exceptions to protect patient privacy and to limit obligations to fulfill infeasible requests.
For example, healthcare providers rely upon the Preventing Harm and Privacy Exceptions in
order to comply with state privacy laws, to ensure their patients’ wellbeing, and to protect
patients who are particularly vulnerable. We urge ASTP/ONC to keep these important
exceptions, which balance the need for information sharing with the need for patient
privacy and well-being. While we appreciate the continuing efforts to refine the information
blocking regulations to promote interoperability and to increase the exchange of health
information to improve care and health outcomes, we are also concerned that the
regulations are becoming increasingly complex and difficult for providers to understand
and implement. We therefore encourage ASTP/ONC to consider ways to simplify the
regulations when possible and to provide detailed guidance to assist providers in
understanding and complying with the regulations.
Value Based Care Questions
Advocate Health appreciates the opportunity to provide comments on the role of
technology in advancing value-based care (VBC). As an organization deeply engaged in
accountable care and population health, we offer the following feedback based on our
operational experience and the challenges we face in leveraging health IT to support high-
quality, coordinated care.
Incentives to Encourage ACOs to Leverage Digital Health
To encourage value-based care entities to expand their use of digital health and care
navigation products, Advocate Health supports CMS providing more upfront funding or
financial support to ACOs to invest in these technologies, to test them and to better
understand the return on those investments. CMS could also offer additional waivers for
4

digital health tools that meet certain efficacy and security standards. Currently, most
digital health tools are not reimbursed by fee-for-service Medicare and will need integration
with existing health IT systems, creating barriers to use. Additionally, CMS should
encourage patient adoption of these tools through waiving of cost-sharing and allowing for
ACOs to design rewards for beneficiaries who engage with these tools.
Expanding the Definition of “Treatment” Under HIPAA
We support expanding the definition of “treatment” to include activities such as pre-visit
planning, care coordination, and quality gap closure. These functions are essential to
delivering value-based care and should be recognized as legitimate uses for accessing
clinical data without delay.
Reevaluating CEHRT Requirements
Twelve years after the introduction of CEHRT, we believe it is time to shift focus. Many of
the capabilities required for CEHRT are now foundational to participating in ACOs and
other VBC models. Continuing to emphasize CEHRT compliance adds unnecessary burden
without corresponding improvements in outcomes. Moving forward, we urge CMS to
ensure technology policies give flexibility for total cost of care organizations to pick
technology that works best for them to achieve their clinical and financial goals. The
government should reward entities taking risk for patient populations for the outcomes
they are able to achieve without prescribing the technology tools that should be leveraged
to achieve those goals. Total cost of care or global risk entities have a built-in incentive to
use high impact, low cost tools where they are most useful.
Given experience with CEHRT and the issues overly specific requirements have created,
CMS should be less detailed in what is required. A better approach would be to set up
broad, total cost of care incentives and allow APMs to determine how to adopt the
technology in a way that solves the problems. Any intervention should be about removing
barriers or solving collective action problems (e.g., stricter requirements around making
data available).
Additionally, before implementing standards and requirements, CMS should also
undertake real-world testing to ensure EHR capabilities are adequate. Using Bulk FHIR
capabilities, as an example, have shown that many EHRs are not ready for this
implementation. Any technology requirements should be focused on removing barriers,
such as more stringent requirements for making data available. CMS should strive to
eliminate unnecessary burdens as organizations engaged in value-based care work are
inherently incentivized to invest in these technologies to be successful in this work.
Burden reduction is a key benefit for providers who participate in accountable care models,
particularly two-sided risk models. In enacting the Medicare Access and CHIP
Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA), Congress recognized that participants in advanced
APMs were undertaking many of the desired behaviors of cost control and quality
5

improvement through their model designs. For this reason, clinicians participating in
advanced APMs are exempt from the Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS). This
longstanding policy rationale has led to CMS attempting to remove, waive or align model
requirements, removing burden or duplication in favor of empowering the movement to
accountable care. In contrast, CMS recently finalized a requirement that participants in the
MSSP report the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category measures instead
of the attestation requirement. This requirement adds, rather than reduces, burden for APM
participants. CMS should rescind this requirement and differentiate APM requirements
from MIPS to the greatest extent possible.
Addressing Data Aggregation and Interoperability Challenges
Data aggregation remains a significant challenge. In the current state, there are numerous
challenges for ACOs aggregating and reporting quality eCQM data, regardless of which data
format is being used. Some of the key obstacles are associated with the use of
unstructured data, dealing with missing or incomplete data, poor data formatting and a
lack of standardization. Further, each reporting format has its own set of challenges. Some
vendors customize in ways that prohibit interoperability. A lack of universal standards
enforcement results in varying levels of data accuracy. This is true even with the FHIR
specification, which is intended to be a universal standard for HL7, as different systems
may use different coding systems for the same clinical concepts. For example, one system
may use SNOMED CT for diagnoses while another uses ICD-10. Even though both use the
condition resource in FHIR, the codes may not align leading to data loss or
misinterpretation. Lack of standard codes hinders interoperability, even if the data
structure adheres to FHIR standards.
Accelerate FHIR Adoption with Vendor Accountability
FHIR holds promise for standardized data exchange, but adoption remains limited. Relying
solely on FHIR, however, as the solution for data exchange is not currently feasible, as most
EHR vendors are not yet fully prepared to support it. Among those that have begun
implementing FHIR, there continue to be difficulties with configuration, requiring multiple
rounds of testing to ensure the delivery of the minimum necessary data to report. To
address this, CMS should look to incentivize EHR vendors to prioritize FHIR Bulk Data
implementation. CMS should also establish certification or readiness benchmarks to
ensure vendors deliver turnkey FHIR solutions and continue allowing for multiple data
formats as we continue the transition.
Standardize and Validate Data Across Vendors
Data quality issues persist due to inconsistent implementation and mapping. Currently,
there is wide variability in data due to lack of standardization. For example, different
vendors interpret FHIR specifications differently, leading to inconsistencies in how data is
structured and formatted. Vendors also use optional FHIR and CCDA elements
inconsistently, leading to data gaps. There is also variation in templates used and where
6

data are located in the EHR, and many vendors use proprietary codes which requires
mapping to standardized codes. Vendors also use different coding systems such as
SNOMED CT, ICD-10, LOINC and custom lab codes. These inconsistencies make mapping
exercises critically important and are extremely time consuming. We recommend requiring
vendors to use standardized terminologies (e.g., SNOMED CT, LOINC) and maintaining
updated code mappings. CMS should also require more rigorous validation requirements.
Funding and technical support for bulk FHIR implementation and data aggregation
infrastructure are urgently needed. However, we caution that FHIR, while promising, has
not yet delivered the expected improvements in data quality or ease of use. Many EHR
vendors are still developing their FHIR capabilities, and ACOs often bear the cost of
implementation and maintenance.
Improve Interoperability and Reduce Customization
Custom implementations by vendors hinder interoperability. We recommend encouraging
vendors to minimize proprietary extensions that deviate from standards. We also
recommend CMS encourage the use of standard terminologies such as LOINC, SNOWMED
CT, RxNorm to ensure semantic consistency.
Additionally, nursing homes and other post-acute care providers were excluded from
original EHR incentives and now operate on disparate systems and should be incentivized
to adopt systems that promote interoperability.
Enhancing Data Exchange with Payers
We support efforts to streamline data exchange with payers in risk-bearing arrangements.
However, there must be mandatory safeguards that ensure data is used for very clear and
specific purposes and only for value-based care purposes.
Improving Data Quality and Standardization
The quality of clinical data remains a major barrier. Proprietary coding systems, non-
discrete data fields, and inconsistent workflows hinder effective data use. We urge the
development and enforcement of standardized code sets and data formats to enable
meaningful data extraction and reporting.
Data Essential for Successful Participation in Value-Based Care Arrangements
Access to quality data is essential for successful participation in value-based care
arrangements. This includes access to clinical data, claims and cost data. There are often
other data sources used such as Health Information Exchange (HIE) data, and information
on admissions, discharge and transfers. Additionally, care management software is also
often used to do treatment planning, medication management and other critical care
coordination. While standardization of care management software could improve
interoperability, we caution against overregulation that could stifle innovation. Many
7

vendors (e.g., Compass Rose, Arcadia, Innovaccer) offer diverse solutions tailored to
specific needs. Any regulatory approach should be flexible and outcomes-focused.
AI and Digital Health Tools
We support the use of AI to enhance care access and efficiency, such as identifying high-
risk patients or supporting chronic disease management between visits. However, these
tools must be integrated with escalation protocols to ensure timely human intervention.
We also note that clinicians are concerned about managing the influx of data from these
tools, and any implementation must consider workflow integration.
Nationwide Provider Directory
We recognize the potential benefits of a standardized nationwide provider directory, as
currently significant time and resources are spent on mapping providers and specialties.
However, we caution that implementation could be complex. Clear standards for provider
characterization and maintenance are essential. Enhancements to PECOS, including
delegated access and incentives for updates, could serve as a practical starting point.
Event Notification Requirements
The ability to have real time data sharing is critical to the success of value-based care work.
At the same time, we recognize requirements must be implemented in a way that does not
add undue burden to hospitals. We recommend maintaining these requirements to
support value-based initiatives.
Conclusion
We appreciate the opportunity to provide our feedback on the Health Technology
Ecosystem RFI. If you have any questions about our comments or need any additional
information, please do not hesitate to contact Sabra Rosener, VP, Federal Affairs and
Government Policy (Sabra.Rosener@aah.org). We stand ready to serve as a resource as
CMS and ASTP/ONC continue these important efforts to improve interoperability and data
sharing to accelerate progress toward a patient-centered health system.
Sincerely,
Bobbie Byrne, MD
Chief Informatics Officer
Advocate Health
8