1. Patient Needs
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand
and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should
take?
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for you or your loved ones'
health that can be enabled by digital health products?
We’ve seen people in online communities post (via screenshot) lab results to help
interpret the results and learn of treatment options.
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information
in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)?
In our experience, we often hear from patients and caregivers that they do not
have easy access to their health information, but they would like to have easy
access so they could feel more empowered and make better, more informed
decisions.
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider
generated data on patients?
A standard highly efficient and trusted onboarding process to provide consent to
extract data and verify identity
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and
easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited
prior experience using digital tools and services?
Trust is a big factor for adoption and often times allowing a 3rd party to help
access data feels uncomfortable. Maybe a national certification or standardized
onboarding process that helps users gain confidence that the process is
legimitate.
3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking
complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact?
Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange?
Maybe the reporting could be automated? If CMS could work with the networks to
make transparency blocking requests and send those cases directly to an
enforcement agency, that would both incentivize the networks to reduce blocking
but also help CMS collect the information on what was blocked.
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks

1. Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
and caregivers?
Make available standardized developer tools to connect to the infrastructure
directly. Right now there are many tech providers that charge high prices to
access the network. However, access should eventually be commoditized so that
developers can access it directly.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
Imaging data, doctor notes
3. Technical Standards and Certification
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available
APIs over proprietary APIs?
Pricing, documentation and support. Middlemen tech vendors are prohibitively
expensive. If CMS can support open APIs with constant development and clear
documentation, then many developers would use it.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
This would help integrate with providers and transfer data between providers. A
central organization should be maintaining this national directory.
4. Data Exchange
TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing
access to the entirety of a patient's electronic health information (EHI)?
A direct-to-patient data market where patients can leverage their data directly to
receive or enroll in programs.
a. What are the primary obstacles to this?
Access to data, trust in the process, education in the legal framework supporting
this

TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in
ensuring viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough supply and
demand, that results in usage and outcomes?
Full transparency on the cost and lower barrier of entry to allow for competition.
Often times in healthcare, costs are inflated because the players involved have
too much control over the costs or there is no transparency to justify the cost.
5. Compliance
TD-18. Information blocking:
a. Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of practices you
have experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please include both
situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a failure or
unusable response?
We’ve heard stories in the industry of information blocking implemented by
decision makers with conflicts of interest. This highlights the importance of
ensuring that those managing the data infrastructure operate with impartiality
and do not inadvertently limit competition.
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
Price transparency would improve barrier of access in this space.