June 16, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-2025-0050-0031
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244–8013
Regarding CMS-2025-0050-0031, Request for Information (RFI) Health Technology
Ecosystem
To the Director of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS):
Introduction
We are writing on behalf of the Joint Public Health Informatics Task Force (JPHIT), a
coalition of 14 national public health associations that optimizes and advocates for the
exchange of timely and accurate public health data. JPHIT integrates the expertise and
reach of national associations to advance public health information system capabilities by
identifying synergies, providing complete perspectives, building consensus, and facilitating
action.
JPHIT appreciates the opportunity to submit comments on CMS-2025-0050-0031, Request
for Information (RFI) Health Technology Ecosystem. These comments include input from
JPHIT member organization representatives, staff from member organizations, and
members within each organization.
As CMS and ASTP advance their vision for a more connected health system, JPHIT urges
the agencies to prioritize two essential imperatives: including the voice of public health in
the visioning of a future health technology ecosystem and investing in the
infrastructure that enables public health to keep pace with technological and policy
evolution of our healthcare companions.
Include the Voice of Public Health
The RFI requests feedback representing a number of different perspectives, including that
of patients, providers, payers, and technology developers, but notably not that of public
health. This absence is striking given the central role public health plays in population-level
outcomes, disease prevention, and combatting chronic disease. Public health
1

professionals offer critical expertise that complements clinical care and ensures that
digital health tools are designed with community impact in mind. Public health
professionals enhance clinical data sets by implementing rigorous validation processes,
standardizing data collection methods, and ensuring comprehensive reporting. Their
expertise in epidemiology and health informatics allows them to identify and correct
inaccuracies, fill in missing information, and improve overall data quality, making clinical
data more reliable and useful for health interventions and policy-making. Their
perspectives must be integrated into governance structures, advisory bodies, and
implementation strategies to ensure that digital innovation supports not only individual
care but also broader public health goals.
Our ability to respond to public health emergencies and to develop strategies for improving
the wellbeing of our populations rely on high quality, timely data. As CMS and ASTP imagine
the bedrock capabilities of a modernized health technology ecosystem, it is imperative that
the tools, systems, and platforms that make up this ecosystem support the requirements
and improvement of public health.
Embedding these requirements early in the process will enable seamless yet robust public
health reporting. CMS and ASTP should therefore continue to engage with state, tribal,
local, and territorial public health agencies, as well as with JPHIT and its individual
members, to take advantage of their subject matter expertise.
Invest in Infrastructure to Support Public Health Dataflows
The Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) represents a major
step forward in nationwide interoperability. However, public health agencies - especially at
the state, tribal, local, and territorial levels - often lack the technical and operational
capacity to fully participate in this evolving ecosystem. CMS and ASTP, along with other
federal agencies such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), should
support targeted investments that enable public health entities to modernize their data
systems, train their workforce, and engage effectively with TEFCA-qualified networks.
In addition, public health must be equipped to adopt and implement emerging
technologies such as Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR)-based Application
Programming Interfaces (APIs) and Artificial Intelligence (AI). These tools offer
transformative potential for real-time data exchange, predictive analytics, and more
responsive public health interventions. Without the resources and support to integrate
these technologies, public health risks falling further behind in a rapidly advancing digital
2

landscape. In many instances, public health agencies will need to replace or upgrade
legacy systems before they will have the capabilities to move to the next level of public
health data exchange.
We have seen many promising examples and early successes with FHIR and TEFCA
exchange in the public health sphere. Through collaborations with several JPHIT members,
CDC has supported small-scale pilots and proof-of-concept projects that demonstrate an
eagerness among state and local jurisdictions to innovate with these new technologies,
streamline and enhance data exchange, simplify complicated workflows, and analyze data
in new ways.
FHIR based exchange is the new national data standard for vital records and since 2021,
fifteen jurisdictional vital record offices have implemented FHIR-based exchange practices
with the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS). Between 2022-2024, ASTHO, CSTE,
and NACCHO worked with three pairs of state and local health agencies to implement
FHIR-based data exchange. In addition to strengthening partnerships, these jurisdictions
refined use cases and processes for sharing vital records and infectious disease data.
Going forward, these jurisdictions and others continue to explore efficiencies and hope to
expand use cases and partners who use FHIR to exchange public health data.
In terms of TEFCA, public health is adopting the public exchange subexchange purposes
that have been defined in the Public Health Exchange Purpose Standard Operating
Procedure. The Informatics Messaging Services (AIMS) Platform, through its participation in
the eHealth Exchange QHIN, is processing 2.25 million eCR documents per month and
delivering them to public health agencies throughout the country, one of the few public
health use cases that are in production via TEFCA. In addition, several public health
agencies at the state and local levels have participated in TEFCA exchange as early
demonstrators for eCR and individual query to meet their jurisdiction’s workflow and use
case needs. While these early demonstrators have shown promising progress in
exchanging data via TEFCA, their experiences, including successes and challenges, should
be considered when planning the future health technology ecosystem.
These examples demonstrate that when given the opportunity, public health can harness
these emerging technologies and standards to develop innovative solutions to challenging
problems.
3

Conclusion
In conclusion, JPHIT stresses two key points in response to this RFI 1) CMS and ASTP
should continue to include public health leadership at the local, state, and federal
level in any planning for a future health technology ecosystem and 2) Public health will
need time and funding to implement the infrastructure and develop the capabilities
needed to achieve this future vision.
As strong proponents of standards and interoperability across public health, we support
the efforts of CMS and ASTP to create more robust pathways to share complete and timely
data. However, it is critically important that these efforts are supported with dedicated
funding for public health, and that sustainable funds are available to bolster the continued
enhancements needed to truly modernize public health systems and to take advantage of
new technologies like FHIR APIs.
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide input on this RFI. The public health
community values the partnership that we have with federal agencies like CMS and ASTP,
and we acknowledge our shared goal of streamlining and modernizing the health IT
infrastructure with the ultimate objectives of improving health outcomes for all Americans.
Should you have any questions about JPHIT’s feedback, please do not hesitate to contact
us; inquiries can be directed to jphit@astho.org.
Sincerely,
The Joint Public Health Informatics Task Force
JPHIT Members include (endorsed):
American Immunization Registry Association (AIRA)
American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA)
Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL)
Association of State & Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO)
Big Cities Health Coalition (BCHC)
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE)
Healthcare Informatics and Management Systems Society (HIMSS)
4

National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO)
National Association for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems (NAPHSIS)
Network for Public Health Law (NPHL)
5