Precog Response to Request For Information: Health Technology Ecosystem
(Code CMS-0042-NC)
Agency: Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services
Introduction
Precog is an AI-powered, automated platform that connects seamlessly to any
application API and loads data into your data warehouse or database, fully prepared for
analytics, machine learning, and business/intelligence applications. Precog has many
out-of-box connectors and importantly, can create a fully functional new API connector
in hours, without a single line of code. As such, it is extremely well suited to automate
the movement of data to/from sources as part of the CMS’s Health Technology
Ecosystem.
Precog’s comments/input are centered around these three specific portions of the
RFI:
Data Exchange
PR-5. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you already support
or utilize in your provider organization's systems, directly or through an
intermediary?
● Patient Access API.
● Standardized API for Patient and Population Services.
● Provider Directory API.
● Provider Access API.
● Payer-to-Payer API.
● Prior Authorization API.
● Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based access filtering for
population-specific queries?
○ SMART on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and
standalone app access? What does the process for application
deployment entail?
● CDS Hooks (for clinical decision support integrations).
Precog has reviewed this list and virtually all of these APIs can be
supported in the Precog platform. We invite the CMS Data Exchange team
to a technology exchange session to demonstrate its AI-powered,
1

automated platform that connects seamlessly to any application API and
loads data into your data warehouse or database, fully prepared for
analytics, machine learning, and business/intelligence applications.
Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they
relate to use cases and workflows that involve technology vendors, data
providers, and networks. While we certainly want technology vendors, data
providers, and networks to answer questions in this section (and in other
sections) from their point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide their
viewpoints on the technology vendor, data provider, and network use cases as
appropriate.
Precog submits this response to assist the CMS in its market research,
inform CMS of the existence of Precog’s approach to moving data, and to
encourage CMS to consider adding provisions in any pending
solicitation(s) requesting and rewarding vendors to include an automated
approach to API-driven data movement as part of their overall Health
Technology Ecosystem. Doing so will enhance the overall approach and
lower the cost of enabling API-driven data movement.
Data Exchange
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so,
what criteria or metrics should CMS consider?
Precog’s platform can easily generate and support custom connectors to
any data source with an API.
Company name, address, point of contact
Precog
201 Main Street, Suite 100, Carbondale, CO 81623
Ed Fakler - Business Development, Federal
efakler@precog.com
301-717-5518
2

Experience
Precog has many customers using its API-driven data movement platform platform. A
number are highlighted with quotes on its website on this page:
https://precog.com/about/
Here are some examples as well:
■ Large government contractor(s) leveraging Precog to perform Spend analytics for their
fighter program with Ariba data.
■ Large Healthcare provider(s) leveraging Cerner data through precog to perform
advanced patient care analytics.
■ Distributed Healthcare provider(s) leveraging Precog to gather various data applications
(EHR, Netsuite, Salesforce) for patient Anxiety Mental Health analytics
■ Precog is leveraged by the largest Utility, Manufacturing, Energy and Mining companies
in the world for their advanced analytics. Reporting, Machine Learning, AI The
platform is proven to be able to address the largest analytical problem sets.
Precog’s Platform
Precog is an intelligent integration platform that seamlessly connects to any application
API and delivers analytics-ready data to your preferred destination. Our AI-powered
solution creates fully functional, no-code connectors in hours–not weeks or
months–giving you access to the data you need quickly.
Fast Deployment Unmatched Accuracy
Create new API connectors in hours Extract all of your data, regardless of its
with a simple in-app wizard. Connect to complexity or customization.
your entire suite of applications and start Automatically generate analytics-ready
loading data in record time. data optimized for business intelligence,
machine learning and AI applications.
Effortless Maintenance
Future-proof ELT workflows and Cost-Effective & Predictable Pricing
eliminate Simplify your ELT into a single,
maintenance with connectors that comprehensive solution that can handle
automatically adjust to any API updates all your data integration needs. Annual
and schema changes. pricing, instead of volume-based pricing,
means you won’t get a surprise bill.
3

Existing Connectors
Precog has 2000+ SaaS API Connectors. The searchable full list is on our website:
https://precog.com/data-sources/
Existing Destinations
● Amazon S3 Cloud Storage and Amazon Redshift
● Google Cloud and Google BigQuery
● MS Azure Cloud Storage
● Databricks
● Snowflake
● SQL Server
● PostgreSQL
● Confluent
Creating New Connectors
Vs. Precog’s automated approach:
4

Adapting to changing APIs
AI-powered ELT solutions like Precog can ensure seamless data integration and
compatibility with the latest API updates. The platform is designed to automatically
detect and adjust to API changes, including updates to authentication methods or
schema changes. Precog detects those changes automatically and adjusts
automatically in the platform. This ability to adapt to API changes without requiring
manual intervention is one of the key advantages of using an AI-infused ELT solution.
5