 Precision Medicine Execu’┐Įve Summary August 2023 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2 PURPOSE The purpose of this document is to provide an execu ’┐Įve overview of the importance of a pharmacist led pharmacogenomic (PGx) solu’┐Įon and where NCPDP standards can support the forward mo vement of Precision Medicine . The intent is to look at current progr ess of PGx within the healthcare arena and where NCPDP solu’┐Įons can be explore d, modi’¼üed or created to support the pharmacist led PGx work’¼éow . DEFINITIONS Personalized Medicine: an approach to pa’┐Įents that considers their gene’┐Įc make -up but with aten’┐Įon to their preferences, beliefs, a’┐Įtudes, knowledge, and social context. Pharmacogene’┐Įcs: the study of how varia’┐Įons in individual genes in’¼éuence drug response. It examines th e im pact of speci’¼üc gene’┐Įc varia’┐Įons, such as single nucleo’┐Įde polymorphisms (SNPs), on drug metabolism, e’¼ācacy, and adverse reac’┐Įons. Pharmacogene’┐Įcs typically inves’┐Įgates the in’¼éuence of varia’┐Įons in speci’¼üc genes known to be involved in drug metabolism or response. Pharmacogenomics (PGx) : the study of how an individual's en’┐Įre gene’┐Įc makeup, including all their genes, in’¼éuences their response to drugs. It involves analyzing the en’┐Įre genome to iden’┐Įfy gene’┐Įc varia’┐Įons that may impact d rug metabolism, e’¼ācacy, and safety. Pharmacogenomics takes a broader approach by considering the interac’┐Įon of mul’┐Įple genes and gene’┐Įc pathways. Precision Medicine: a model for health care delivery that relies heavily on data, analy’┐Įcs, and informa’┐Į on - at the core of Personalized Medicine - is a key tool in the Personalized/Precision Medicine Toolbox ŌĆō the study of how genes a’¼Ćect a personŌĆÖs response to medica’┐Įons. Value based care arrangements : a form of reimbursement that ’┐Įes payments for care delivery to the quality of care provided and rewards providers for both e’¼āciency and e’¼Ćec’┐Įveness. Pharmacogene’┐Įcs or Pharmacogenomics ? While the terms pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics are o’┐Įen used interchangeably, pharmacogene’┐Įcs generally refers to the e’¼Ćects of a single gene’┐Įc marker while pharmacogenomics is broader in context, referring to the collec’┐Įve in’¼éuence of variability across the genome to modulate an individual's dr ug response pro’¼üle. For the purpose of this Execu’┐Įve Summary , we will use the broader context ŌĆ£Ph armacogenomicsŌĆØ or the abbrevia’┐Įon ŌĆ£PGxŌĆØ. 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 3 UNDERSTANDING PRECISION MEDICINE Precision medicine emphasizes tailoring medical interven’┐Įons to individual characteris’┐Įcs, including gene’┐Įc fac tors. ŌĆ£Pharmacogenomics can play an important role in iden’┐Įfying responders and non - responders to medica’┐Įons, avoiding adverse events, and op’┐Įmizing drug dose ŌĆØ (FDA, 2023 ). By integra’┐Įng PGx results into the standard of care, pharmacies contribute to the broade r adop’┐Įon of precision medicine principles. Through standardized implementa’┐Įon of PGx tes’┐Įng and interpreta’┐Įon, stakeholders can consistently leverage gene’┐Įc informa’┐Įon to op’┐Įmize treatment decisions. This integra’┐Įon facilitates a more precise, pa’┐Į ent-centered approach that aligns with the goals of precision medicine. Individualized Medica’┐Įon Selec’┐Įon: PGx hel ps iden’┐Įfy gene’┐Įc varia’┐Įons that can impact how a person metabolizes and responds to medica’┐Įons. By considering a pa’┐Įent's gene’┐Įc pro’¼üle, healthcare providers can make more informed decisions about which medica’┐Įons are likely to be most e’¼Ćec’┐Įve a nd which may pose a higher risk of adverse reac’┐Įons. Dosing Op’┐Įmiza’┐Įon: PGx tes’┐Įng can guide the op’┐Įmiza’┐Įon of medica’┐Įon dosages b ased on gene’┐Įc factors. Gene’┐Įc varia’┐Įons may a’¼Ćect drug metabolism enzymes, leading to either rapid or slow metabolism of certain medica’┐Įons. This informa’┐Įon enables healthcare providers to adjust dosages to achieve op’┐Įmal therapeu’┐Įc outcomes while minimizing the risk of side e’¼Ćects. Avoidance of Adverse Drug Reac’┐Įons: Some gene’┐Įc varia’┐Įons can increase the ris k of adverse drug reac’┐Įons or toxicity to speci’¼üc medica’┐Įons. PGx tes’┐Įng helps iden’┐Įfy pa’┐Įents who may be at higher risk, allowing healthcare providers to choose alterna’┐Įve medica’┐Įons or adjust dosages to mi’┐Įgate these risks and improve pa’┐Įent sa fety. Treatment Response Predic’┐Įon: PGx can provide insights into how an individual may respond to speci’¼üc medica’┐Įons based on their gene’┐Įc pro’¼üle. This informa’┐Įon can assist healthcare providers in selec’┐Įng the most appropriate treatment op’┐Įons an d avoiding unnecessary trial - and-error approaches, leading to more targeted and e’¼Ćec’┐Įve treatment plans. Avoidance of Ine’¼Ćec’┐Įve Treat ments: Gene’┐Įc varia’┐Įons may impact the e’¼ācacy of certain medica’┐Įons for speci’¼üc individuals. PGx tes’┐Įng can help iden’┐Įfy pa’┐Įents who are less likely to respond to certain drugs, allowing healthcare providers to choose alterna’┐Įve therapies that ar e more likely to be e’¼Ćec’┐Įve. This avoids was’┐Įng ’┐Įme and resources on treatments that may not provide op’┐Įmal outcom es. ŌĆ£Pharmacogenomics (PGx) is a ’¼üeld of medicine that studies how gene’┐Įc varia’┐Įon contributes to di’¼Ćerent responses to drugs in di’¼Ćerent pa’┐Įents. The goal of PGx is to use a pa’┐ĮentŌĆÖs gene’┐Įc informa’┐Įon to guide medica’┐Įon therapy to help reduce adverse drug events and op’┐Įmize drug e’¼ācacy (through appropriate drug selec’┐Įon and dosing). To date, there have been many drugs that have been found to have gene - drug int erac’┐Įons. There are currently more than 250 U S Food and Drug Administra’┐Įon -approved drugs that include gene’┐Įc informa’┐Įon on their drug label. Of these, current guidelines have clinically ac’┐Įonable recommenda’┐Įons for more than 45 drugs based on drug- gene interac’┐Įons. Drugs with recommenda’┐Įons c over many therapeu’┐Įc classes that are commonly prescribed, including analgesics, an’┐Įdepressants, an’┐Įpsycho’┐Įcs, and an’┐Įhypertensives.ŌĆØ (Steinbach, et. al., 2022) 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 4 Advancement of Research and Drug Development: PGx data gathered from pa’┐Įents can contribute to research and drug development e’¼Ćor ts. By analyzing the gene’┐Įc pro’¼üles and treatment responses of individuals, researchers can uncover new insights into the rela’┐Įonships between genes, medica’┐Įons, and disease outcomes. This knowledge informs the development of new drugs and treatment approaches in the ’¼üeld of precision medicine. BENEFITS OF PRECISION MEDICINE WITHIN PHARMACY PGx holds imm ense poten’┐Įal to be the catalyst for transi’┐Įoning to value- based care and advancing precision medicine. By implemen’┐Įng pharmacist led PGx solu’┐Įons into the work’¼éow of the pharmacy with fully integra’┐Įng PGx results, improvements in pa’┐Įent care may be realized. Facilita’┐Įon of Value -Based Care: Value -based care aims to improve pa’┐Įent outcomes while reducing healthcare costs. PGx aligns seamlessly with this objec’┐Įve by enabling targeted therapies, minimizing adverse events, and op’┐Įmizing medica’┐Įon r egimens. By integra’┐Įng PGx into pharmacy work’¼éow, key stakeholders can ensure that pa’┐Įents receive the right medica’┐Įon at the right dose, enhancin g treatment e’¼ācacy and cost-e’¼Ćec’┐Įveness (Johnson, et. al., 2021) . This integra’┐Įon enables the delivery of value -based care by focusing on personalized, evidence -based medicine. Improved Pa’┐Į ent Outcomes: With 79% of pa’┐Įents repor’┐Įng pharmacists as a reliable source for healthcare informa’┐Įon beyond prescrip’┐Įons (Lagasse, 2022 ), and 61% of Americans envisioning primary care moving to pharmacies within 5 years ( Rebelo, 2022 ), PGx could reach a larger number of pa’┐Įents if integrated within pharmacy work’¼éows. By integra’┐Įng PGx into the work’¼éow of the pharmacy, pharmacists can access valuable gene’┐Įc informa’┐Įon at the point of care. This integra’┐Įon empowers pharmacists to op’┐Įmize drug therapy, minimize adverse drug reac’┐Įons, enhance treatment e’¼Ć ec’┐Įveness, and ul’┐Įmately improve pa’┐Įent outcomes. An informed and engaged pa’┐Įent popula’┐Įon leads to a more e’¼Ćec’┐Įve standard of care. Enhanced Medica’┐Įon Safety and Cost -E’¼Ćec’┐Įveness: Adverse drug reac’┐Įons (ADRs) contribute signi’¼ücantly to pa’┐Įen t harm and increased healthcare costs. PGx tes’┐Įng provides crucial insights into a pa’┐Įent's gene’┐Įc predisposi’┐Įon to speci’¼üc drug reac’┐Įo ns, enabling proac’┐Įve measures to prevent ADRs. By integra’┐Įng PGx results into the standard of care, pharmacists can iden’┐Įfy pa’┐Įents at higher risk of ADRs and adjust medica’┐Įon regimens accordingly, leading to enhanced medica’┐Įon safety. (Cacabelos, Cacabelos & Carril, 2019 ). Avoiding ine’¼Ćec’┐Įve medica’┐Įons through PGx -guided therapy selec’┐Įon can contribute to c ost savings by reducing trial- and-error prescribing. ŌĆ£While there remain barriers to large -scale adop’┐Įon of precision medicine and gene’┐Įcs t es’┐Įng, the bene’¼üts of these technologies ŌĆō alon g with VBC models that emphasize preven’┐Įon and holis’┐Įc care ŌĆō are becoming increasingly undeniable. It will only be a mater of ’┐Įme before VBC, precision medicine, and gene’┐Įcs tes’┐Įng will enter the main stream of healthcare.ŌĆØ (King, 2021) 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 5 Op’┐Įmiza’┐Įon of Medica’┐Įon Selec’┐Įon and Dosing: The integra’┐Įon of PGx into pharmacy work’¼éow enables proac’┐Įve precise medica’┐Įon selec’┐Įon and dosing based on individual gene’┐Įc pro’¼üles. By incorpo ra’┐Įng PGx tes’┐Įng as part of rou’┐Įne clinical prac’┐Įce, pharmacists can determine the most e’¼Ćec’┐Įve medica’┐Įons and appropriate dosages for each pa’┐Įent. This op’┐Įmiza’┐Įon reduces the likelihood of subop’┐Įmal treatment outcomes, therapeu’┐Įc failures, and medica’┐Įon -related complica’┐Įons. Ul’┐Įmately, PGx within the pharmacy work’¼éow leads to improved pa’┐Įent sa’┐Įsfac’┐Įon, reduced hospitaliza’┐Į ons, and beter resource u’┐Įliza’┐Įon. When therapeu’┐Įc outcomes are not achieved, the results can be both costly an d harmful. Es’┐Įmates of between 25% and 50% of prescribed medica’┐Įons have been shown to miss the mark on a proper therapeu’┐Įc result (Steinbach, et. al. , 2022 ). This study found the cost to the U.S. to be as much as $528.4 billion annually in increased me dical expense. VALUE OF STANDARDIZED PHARMACIST LED PGX SOLUTION S The value of integra’┐Įng standardized PGx to the pharmacy work’¼éow , and healthcare as a whole, lies in improved pa’┐Įent outcomes, enhanced medica’┐Įon safety and cost-e’¼Ćec’┐Įveness, facilita ted clinical decision -making, and advance d research and knowledge. Standardized PGx prac’┐Įces establish a founda’┐Įon for con sistent, evidence- based u’┐Įliza’┐Įon of gene’┐Įc informa’┐Įon, driving improvements in precision medicine and op’┐Įmizing medica’┐Įon the rapy for beter pa’┐Įent care. By harnessing the power of PGx, pharmacists can provide pa’┐Įent -centered care that maximizes treatment e’¼Ćec’┐Įveness, safety, and pa’┐Įent sa’┐Įsfac’┐Įon. The establishment and adop’┐Įon of standards creates consistency across the various stakeholders , which is crucial for PGx success. E’¼Ćec’┐Įve data integra’┐Įon and interoperability of PGx informa’┐Įon allows for consistent interpreta’┐Įon of: ŌĆó Repor’┐Įng ŌĆó Clinical guidelines ŌĆó Educa’┐Įon and training ŌĆó Regulatory compliance ŌĆó Ethical conside ra’┐Įons ŌĆó Research standards A CALL TO ACTION PGx is gaining recogni’┐Įon and acceptance in clinical prac’┐Įce and legisla’┐Įon such as the ŌĆ£Right Drug Dose Now ŌĆØ Act proposed in 2022 ( Liebert, Inc. Publishers, 2022) . As more stakeholders recognize its poten’┐Įal to improve pa’┐Įent care, standardiza’┐Įon becom es crucial to ensure consistent and reliable integra’┐Įon of pharmacogenomic informa’┐Įon into rou’┐Įne clinical work’¼éows. With the advancement in technology and the increasing role precision medicine is playing within healthcare, the ’┐Įme is now to get invo lved and be a part of the precision medicine revolu’┐Įon being driven by advancements in genomic technologies, data analy’┐Įcs, and the unraveling of the complexi’┐Įes involved in the business applica’┐Įon of this amazing science. 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 6 NCPDPŌĆÖ S INVOLVEMENT As the healthcare standards and solu’┐Įons leader for the common good, NCPDP continues to focus on strengthening healthcare delivery through pharmacy. As directed by the NCPDP Board of Trustees and the Strategic Plann ing Commitee (SPC) , Precision Medicine is a current ini’┐Įa’┐Įve for NCPDP with a focus on the u’┐Įliza’┐Įon of standards and innova’┐Įve solu’┐Įons. Under the Professional Pharmacy Services Work Group (WG), WG10, is the Pharmacogenomics Task Group . This group is ac’┐Įve , open for input by all stakeh olders regardless of NCPDP membership and will be involved in NCPDP precision medicine ac’┐Įvity as progress is achieved and the exper’┐Įse of that group is needed. Addi’┐Įonally, NCPDP has hosted two webinars focused o n both precision medicine and pharmacogenomics. An upcoming webinar will feature panelists from throughout the industry discussing the future of integra’┐Įng a pharmacist led PGx solu’┐Įon into the pharmacy work’¼éow u’┐Įlizing NCPDP standards. NCPDP has an es tablished Precision Medicine S ubcommitee with a primary focus on achieving the strategic ini’┐Įa’┐Įves of the organiza’┐Įon. In March 2023, NCPDP welcomed key in’¼éuencers within the in the industry, to par’┐Įcipate in a Precision Medicine Stakeholder Ac’┐Įon G roup (SAG) . The goal of this mee’┐Įng was to understand the challenges and opportuni’┐Įes related to pharmacist par’┐Įcipa’┐Įon in Precision Medicine and help determine next steps for NCPDP related to modifying and/or crea’┐Įng standards and guidance. The group concluded that collec’┐Įvely w orking toward interoperability between providers, standardized solu’┐Įons are needed to e’¼Ćec’┐Įvely incorporate PGx informa’┐Įon into pharmacy informa’┐Įon systems and processes, leading to safer and more personalized medica’┐Įon therapy. There are mul’┐Įple poten’┐Įal use cases that could be created for the ordering and ful’¼üllment of a pharmacogenomic standardized solu’┐Įon service for all stakeholders. The Precision Medicine SAG was charged with exploring NCPDP standards u’┐Įlizing industry experience, exper’┐Įse and evalua’┐Įng poten’┐Įal gaps and barriers to successful integra’┐Įon and implementa’┐Įon. The applicability of an exis’┐Įng standard may be dependent on the individual precision medicine use case. The adop’┐Įon of NCPDP standard s, along with the crea’┐Įon of applicable new standards, could bring value to the integra’┐Įon and exchange of pharmacogenomic data within the pharmacy work’¼éow. 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 7 SAG Takeaways During the SAG, par’┐Įcipants were asked to join groups based on how they felt their organiza’┐Įon best aligned. The industry segments included Payer/PBM, Pharmacy, PGx Organiza’┐Įons/Laboratories, and Vendor Solu’┐Įons/Compendia. Each segment was ta sked to collaborate on four ques’┐Įons; highlights from the ques’┐Įons and responses can be found in the table below. A few themes emerged from the discussions: ambiguity or lack of payment model, the need for greater educa’┐Įon of all players within PGx, inc luding the pa’┐Įent, a lack of PGx standards for labs and tes’┐Įng, and a lack of interoper ability for PGx data, including who should house the data and ’┐Įmely access to it. Payer/PBM Pharmacy PGx Organiza’┐Įons/ Laboratories Vendor Solu’┐Įons / Compendia What are the barriers for your segment? How should reimbursement be handled? Limita’┐Įons and coverage concerns . What should be covered and what are the costs ? Lack of e vidence for PGx and PM. How do you build benchmarks on fair reimbursement rates? What is the value of PGx to the payer and pa’┐Įents? Educa’┐Įon of pharmacists . How to get paid for services rendered. What are the liabili’┐Įes and risks of providing this service? Lack of standardiza’┐Įon of data across labs . How/where is the data stored and by whom? How will the data stay current? How is the data made interoperable? Inconsistency in what is being tested . Inconsistent nomenclature. Developed test vs commercially available tes’┐Įng . State/regulatory policies and/or standards in how gene’┐Įc informa’┐Įon should be protected, shared and used . How to make the data interoperable . What happens when pa’┐Įents move health plans, providers ? Labs cannot o’¼Ćer interpreta’┐Įons, need 3rd party . Changes in knowledge or guidelines. How is the data made interoperable? Where is the data housed ? How to get real -’┐Įme updates . PGx data should be linked to a drug via compendia, similar to linking drug interac’┐Įons . FDA ambiguity and enforcement. 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 8 Payer/PBM Pharmacy PGx Organiza’┐Įons/ Laboratories Vendor Solu’┐Įons/ Compendia What solutions may be available? Value based co ntract to get everyone on board ŌĆō prescriber, lab, pharmacist, payer. Pre-test con’¼ürma’┐Įon/prior authoriza’┐Įon before administering the test. Standards can provide a way to track & communicate data. Stra’┐Įfy the popula’┐Įon to understand the greatest bene’¼üts to PGx. Payer focused pilot for industry collabora’┐Įon (possibility to be funded by NCPDP Founda’┐Įon) ? Data interoperability through use of NCPDP standards. Educa’┐Įon - iden’┐Į’¼üca’┐Įon of educa’┐Įon needed. Relevant research ŌĆō opportunity fo r NCPDP Founda’┐Įon -funded pilot(s). Consistent process between all par’┐Įes supported by NCPDP standards. EDvoca’┐Įng to legislators ŌĆō ensure the pharmacy/pharmacist has a right to play in PM, PGx. A’¼Ćordability and accessibility for the pa’┐Įent. Uniform consensus on tests. Support the standard through: 1. Interpreta’┐Įon of the data 2. Educa’┐Įon 3. How to iden’┐Įfy the pa’┐Įent/drug 4. Expand interoperability Con’┐Įnue to expand, support & implement standards into work’¼éow that is seamless to pharm acist & provider. Put together a strong educa’┐Įonal plan ŌĆō how standards can support . Use embedded transac’┐Įon processing to make determina’┐Įons for decision suppo rt. 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 9 Payer/PBM Pharmacy PGx Organiza’┐Įons/ Laboratories Vendor Solu’┐Įons/ Compendia How can your segment support PGx? Con’¼ürm ac’┐Įon has been taken. Iden’┐Įfy the ways to communicate informa’┐Įon. Improve clinical policy. Mul’┐Įple payors come together to leverage adop’┐Įon. Capturing and making PGx data available to their provid ers. Move toward appointment - based encounters, clinical consulta’┐Įons and PGx. Educa’┐Įon/professional development of the pharmacist. Advoca’┐Įng to legislators for PGx advancement and pharmacist par’┐Įcipa’┐Įon in PGx. Incorpora’┐Įng PGx results into the pharm acy work’¼éow. Increased pharmacist PGx creden’┐Įaling. Enhanced PGx services through specialty pharmacy or limited distribu’┐Įon networks. Baseline standard test between labs. Uniform consensus on tests. Have a PGx specialist at each clinic loca’┐Įon. Support HL7/FHIR. Standards for pharmacy vs medical. PMS/Switch to look for ways to make PGx data ’¼éow seamlessly. Use exis’┐Įng NCPDP standards to make PGx informa’┐Įon interoperable. 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 10 What Can Be Done Now Within NCPDP ? ŌĆó Explore exis’┐Įng NCPDP standards including: o Telecom - Developed to provide a standard format for the electronic submission of third party drug claims and other transac’┐Įons between pharmacy providers, insurance carriers, third -party administrators and other responsible par’┐Įes. ’é¦ Could be u’┐Įlized to determine messages f or payers o SCRIPT - Developed for transmi’┐Įng prescrip’┐Įon informa’┐Įon electronically between prescribers, pharmacies, payers, and other en’┐Į’┐Įes. ’é¦ Could be u’┐Įlized to message back to the pharmacy within the SCRIPT Implementa’┐Įon Repor’┐Įng (SIR) TG ’é¦ RxChange ŌĆō as a part of SCRIPT, the RxChange message is used to request a change to a prescrip’┐Įon ŌĆó Could be u’┐Įlized to d etermine messages to help facilitate results ’é¦ Electronic Prior Authoriza’┐Įon (ePA) ŌĆō as a part o f SCRIPT, the process that is used to request coverage of a speci’¼üc medica’┐Įon for a speci’¼üc pa’┐Įent. ŌĆó Could be u’┐Įlized for data ’¼üelds o Real- Time Prescrip’┐Įon Bene’¼üt (RTPB) ŌĆō Delivers pa’┐Įent -speci’¼üc bene’¼üt and cost informa’┐Įon. ’é¦ ŌĆó U’┐Įlize NCPDPŌĆÖs mem bership base of subject mater experts such as: o Work Group 2 | Product Iden’┐Į’¼üca’┐Įon ’é¦ Product Review and Billing Unit Excep’┐Įon Task Group ŌĆó Con’┐Įnued c ollaborate with the other industry associa’┐Įons and stakeholders What Are Future Considera’┐Įons ? This is a list of ques’┐Įons and/ or areas to explore generated at the end of the NCPDP SAG by all industry stakeholders. While the answers are unclear at this ’┐Įme, this list provides direc’┐Įon for future research by NCPDP in collabora’┐Įon with the industry . ŌĆó Where does the data live ? o How is that data made available to other stakeholders? ŌĆó Pilot through the standards of SCRIPT, Telecom, ePA, & RTPB to see what is possible. ŌĆó Educa’┐Įon throughout the healthcare arena ŌĆó Insights from research/pilots funded through the NCPDP Founda’┐Įon ŌĆó Determine minimum data requirements/elements ŌĆó Collabora’┐Įon with other S tandards Development Organiza’┐Įon s and government en’┐Į’┐Įes 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 11 PGx in Pharmacy Work’¼éow This NCPDP diagram showcas es the possibili’┐Įes of a pharmacist led PGx solu’┐Įon with the goal of bringing value by providing clarity, promo’┐Įng collabora’┐Įon, and highligh’┐Įng the poten’┐Įal opportuni’┐Įes for stakeholder involve ment . It facilitates discussion, understanding, implementa’┐Įon, and adop’┐Įon of an innova’┐Įve approach to personali zed medica’┐Įon management, highligh’┐Įng where NCPDP standards can be u’┐Įlized , modi’¼üed or created . 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 12 MOVING FORWARD NCPDP con’┐Įnues to realize the value in, as well as the need for, the pharmacy industry to come together to address the opportuni’┐Įes sur rounding PGx. By leveraging our industry exper’┐Įse and knowledge gained from the SAG, NCPDP and key stakeholders can con’┐Įnue to work together to e’¼Ćec’┐Įvely communicat e the importance and bene’¼üts of standardizing PGx in the pharmacist le d work’¼éow. Areas for future explora’┐Įon include a deep dive into NCPDP standards with the Pharmacogenomics TG and genera’┐Įon of a guidance document for the u’┐Įliza’┐Įon of exis’┐Įng standards within the pharmacist led work’¼éow. NCPDP may explore the bene’¼üt s of crea’┐Į ng a white paper, possibl y in collabora’┐Įon with industry stakeholder (s), as this is key to the success of standardized solu’┐Įons for PGx. The NCPDP Founda’┐Įon is a 501(c)3 organiza’┐Įon which provides grants for research that f ocus on advancing the use of standa rds-based informa’┐Įon technology for beter healthcare. Through the NCPDP Founda’┐Įon, there is an opportunity for grant funding to research the use of NCPDP standards within Precision Medicine an d, speci’¼ücally, PGx. NCPDP Founda’┐Įon grant research may als o be able to provide further data on the bene’¼üts of pharmacist led PGx s olu’┐Įons. 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 13 COLLABORATION SUMMARY Authors Kristol Chism, R.Ph. | Director of Industry Rela’┐Įons |Optum Insight Kristol brings a pharmacistŌĆÖs perspec’┐Įve to the Precision Medicine subc ommitee and has contributed signi’¼ücantly to the advancement of this ini’┐Įa’┐Įve within NCPDP . She is a leader within NCPDP due to her commitments including Precision Medicine subcommitee lead, co -lead of several task groups, Work Group 20 Lead, and Emerging Professional Fellow. Addi’┐Įonally, Kristol was the winner of the Rising Star Award in 2023. Whitney Ellington | Senior Manager, Mem ber & Product Marke’┐Įng | NCPDP With a background in maternal, fetal, and neonatal medicine, Whitney brings a medical per spec’┐Įve to the Precision Medicine subcommitee. She has several leadership roles within NCPDP including Precision Medicine subcommite e, Emerging Professionals, and oversight of NCPDP graphics and member communica’┐Įons. Whitney is currently working on her masterŌĆÖs in public health and is a member of the Women in Healthcare , Phoenix Chapter. Kelee Petzelt |Consultant, REMS Use Case Coordi nator | Point of Care Partners One of the leading experts in pharmacogenomics, Kelee was central to the crea’┐Įon of this document and the movement of pharmacogenomics within healthcare. Kelee has leadership roles within NCPDP including Precision Medicine s ubcommitee co -lead and Emerging Professionals event planning task group. She is highly involved as a guest speaker at in dustry events focused on pharmacogenomics. Kelee has contributed years of knowledge and resources to help move the Precision Medicine a nd pharmacogenomics ini’┐Įa’┐Įve forward within NCPDP . Contributors William (Bill) Barre, R.Ph. Co-founder | MedPGx Dale Brown CEO | MedPGx Maggie Bruce Senior Vice President, Associa’┐Įon Marke’┐Įng & Communica’┐Įons | NCPDP John Hill, MBAHCM, CNED COO | NCPDP Richard Sage Execu’┐Įve Vice President, Innova’┐Įon & Standards Development | NCPDP Lee Ann Stember President & CEO | NC PDP Chris’┐Įan Tadrus, R.Ph., Pharm.D., FASCP , NSC Independent Pharmacist | SamŌĆÖs Health Mart Jonathan (Jon) Vecchiet, Pharm.D. Director, Pharmacy | Oscar Health 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 14 RESOURCES NCPD P Resources Collabora’┐Įve Workspace (access to join Task Groups (TG) and review mee’┐Įng notes): htps://dms.ncpdp.org/ Webinars can be accessed at: htps://www.ncpdp.org/Webinars.aspx Membership Informa’┐Įon: htps://www.ncpdp.org/Membership.aspx Strategic Ini’┐Įa’┐Įves: htps://ncpdp.org/Strategic -Ini’┐Įa’┐Įves.aspx Standards: htps://standards.ncpdp.org/Access -to-Standards.aspx NCPDP Founda’┐Įon: htp://ncpdpfounda’┐Įon.org/home.aspx PGx Informa’┐Įon & Guidelines Associa’┐Įon for Molecular Pathology : eurekalert.org/ Dutch Pharmacogenomi cs Working Group : /pharmacogenomics -1/pha rmacogenomics Canadian Pharmacogenomic Network for Medica’┐Įon Safety : cpnds.ubc.ca European Pharmacogenomics Implementa’┐Įon Consor’┐Įum : eu-pic.net/ CDC Public Health Genomics: cdc.gov/genomics/gtes’┐Įng/index.htm Food and Medica’┐Įon Administra’┐Įon: fda.gov/medica’┐Įons/science -and-research - medica’┐Įons/table -pharmacogenomic -biomarkers -medica’┐Įon -labeling Clinical Pharmacog ene’┐Įcs Implementa’┐Įon Consor’┐Įum: cpicpgx.org/guidelines French Network of Pharmaco gene’┐Įcs: sciencedirect.com/science/ar’┐Įcle/abs/pii/S0040595717300069?via%3Dihub 
PRECISION MEDICINE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 15 REFERENCES Cacabelos, Ramon, Cacabelos, Natalia & Carril, Juan. (April 2024). The role of pharmacogenomics in adverse drug reactions . Na’┐Įonal Library of Me dicine ; Na’┐Įonal Center for Biotechnology Informa’┐Įon. Retrieved July 14, 2023 from: htps://doi.org/10.1080/17512433.2019.1597706 FDA. (February 10, 2023). Table of Pharmacogenomic Biomarkers in Drug Labeling. U.S. Food & Drug Administra’┐Įon. Retrieved July 19, 2023 from: htps://www.fda.gov/drugs/science -and-research - drugs/table -pharmacogenomic -biomarkers -drug- labeling Johnson , Kevin , et. al. (January 2021). Precision Medicine, AI, and the Future of Personalized Health Care . Na’┐Įonal Library of Medicine ; Na’┐Įonal Center for Biotechnology Informa’┐Įon . Retrieved on July 14, 2023 from: htps://doi.org/10.1111%2Fcts.12884 King, Ron. (November 23, 2021). How Precision Medicine and Genetic Testing Will Drive Value -based Care . Managed Healthcare Execu’┐Įve. R etrieved July 14, 2023 from: htps://www.managedhealthcareexecu’┐Įve.com/view/how -precision -medicine -and-gene’┐Įc - tes’┐Įng -will-drive -value -based -care Lagas se, Je’¼Ć. (January 18, 2022). People placing more trust in pharmacists for care management: Patients had a high level of trust in pharmacists to complete most activities, including prescribing medications and providing counseling. Healthcare Finance. Retrieved July 13, 2023 from: htps://www.healthcare’¼ünancenews.com/news/people -placing -more -trust -pharmacists -care - management#:~:text=Pa’┐Įent%20respondents%20had%20a%20high,44%25 Rebelo, Andre . (December 7, 2022). US survey signals big shifts in primary care to pharmacy and clinic settings as consumers seek lower medication and healthcare costs . Wolters Kluwer . News and Press Releases . Retrieved July 13, 2023 from: htps://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/news/us - survey -signals-big-shi’┐Įs -in-primary -care -to-pharmacy -and-clinic -se’┐Įngs Steinback , Museta, et. al. (April 2022). Analysis of a panel -based pharmacogenomics testing program among members of a commercial and Medicare client of a pharmacy bene’¼üts manager . Journal of Managed Care + Specialty Pharmacy (Volume 28; Issue 4). Retrieved July 14, 2023 from: htps://doi.org/10.18553/jmcp.2022.28.4.485 