Response to CMS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
File Code: CMS-0042-NC
RIN: 0938-AV68
Date: 2025-06-16
Primary Contact Name & Title: Samir Unni
Email: srunni@gmail.com Phone: (314) 775-6830
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Office of Burden Reduction & Health Informatics
Attn: CMS-0042-NC, Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244
To Whom It May Concern:
I am pleased to submit the below response, based on my experience working with provider
and payer organizations, HHS, and directly with Medicare beneficiaries, particularly dual
enrollees, in various capacities over the past decade. I have focused my comments on the
practical barriers those patients face when navigating and coordinating their care.
The single most important proposal below is to re-envision HealthCare.gov as the
universal patient front door. By redesigning and rebranding the existing website so
beneficiaries can (1) discover vetted digital-health tools, (2) authenticate once with a
trusted credential such as Login.gov, and (3) grant downstream apps seamless access to
payer and provider data, CMS can address the awareness and trust hurdles that currently
frustrate patients and caregivers, when it comes to utilizing digital health products. All
other patient- or caregiver-facing improvements—price-shopping, appointment scheduling,
intake-form automation, and real-time care navigation—depend on that foundational step.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment and for your continued efforts to modernize the
health-technology ecosystem for America’s seniors and their families.
Sincerely,
Samir Unni

PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you
understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the
actions you should take?
• a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones'
health that can be enabled by digital health products?
The single most important problem that a digital health product
could personally solve for me would be to make it easier to manage
the healthcare received by my elderly loved ones, particularly my
parents, who are both on Medicare.
By providing the infrastructure to enable care navigation
technology innovators to tackle this problem, CMS can improve the
lives and health outcomes of Medicare beneficiaries, while also
reducing its own expenses on care navigation. Empowering the
adult children of Medicare beneficiaries, to more seamlessly
shoulder responsibilities that many of them already have, is a
critical complement to reimbursing third-party care navigators.
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health
information in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another
software system)?
No, easy access to health information in one location is currently not possible, due to:
• Limited support, in practice, for the Individual Access Services (IAS) Exchange
Purpose (XP), in TEFCA, despite IAS being a required XP.
o This is largely due to unresolved concerns, on the parts of the QHINs,
about HIPAA liability resulting from incorrect patient matches.
o As a result, users are forced to authenticate with each (Sub)Participant
from which records are available
• Limited exchange of health information between payers and providers,
preventing me from obtaining that information from just one payer or provider
• Limited support for obtaining machine-readable copies of health information
from payers or providers
o Certified EHR Technology has not been adopted by many providers who
do not participate in Medicare, such as on-site clinics at employers.
o Where Certified EHR Technology has been adopted, production
implementations have not been tested for performance. It is not

uncommon to encounter significant downtime, or for crucial data
elements to be left blank in responses to FHIR API calls.
o The payer Patient Access API has not been adopted by many health plans
who are not regulated by it, such as commercial health plans, or ACA
plans on state-based exchanges.
o Even where the Patient Access API has been adopted by CMS-regulated
health plans, it often returns incomplete data in practice. Once again, a
failure to test production implementations has left major gaps in real
world API performance.
• The imposition of periodic reauthentication requirements, by payer and
provider APIs. This means that reauthentication is often required at the very
moment that a beneficiary tries to use a digital health product or experience,
incentivizing them to instead rely on traditional means of accessing healthcare
services.
• a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided?
There are currently limited benefits to having the health
information I do currently have access to. Not only is the available
information largely clinical in nature, but it’s also disconnected
from the largely administrative workflows that I (and my loved
ones) personally engage in, such as scheduling appointments or
filling out forms.
• b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one
portal or system to access all such health information?
In administrative workflows. For instance, not having to manually
supply my demographic and coverage information at the beginning
of every visit, because those forms were automatically filled out by
an AI agent that has access to my health information, would be very
valuable.
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of
today?
• b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer?
CMS is uniquely positioned to offer the crucial digital health product
discovery workflow (i.e., the front door) for Medicare beneficiaries,
by repurposing and rebranding HealthCare.gov. See the answer to
PC-6 for more details.

PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver
interest in these digital health products?
• a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products
on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not
approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if
there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design
changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for
example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary
communications)?
CMS should review and approve digital health products insofar as it
promotes them—which it should do by repurposing, and
rebranding, HealthCare.gov into a universal front door, for access to
healthcare. Doing so is by far the most important role that CMS can
play in accelerating the uptake of digital health products by
Medicare beneficiaries.
Note that primary responsibility for reviewing and approving digital
health products on the basis of their efficacy, quality, or impact on
health outcomes, should lie with FDA, not CMS.
• b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated
data on patients?
As described in the answer to PC-9(b), adding support, to the Blue
Button 2.0 API, for retrieving Part C claims, for Medicare
beneficiaries on MA plans, is the most important step CMS can take
to enable timely access to high quality CMS generated data on
patients.
Accelerating participation by providers in TEFCA IAS, by making the
changes described in PC-10(b), is the most important step CMS can
take to enable timely access to high quality provider generated data
on patients.
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products
accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers,
particularly those with limited prior experience using digital tools and services?
The single biggest barrier to accessibility and ease of use of digital
health products, by Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, is a lack
of awareness, as to which products and services are available.

CMS can address this shortcoming by repurposing, and rebranding,
HealthCare.gov as the universal front door for access to healthcare,
rather than being just for the ACA Marketplace.
This could include a vetted “app marketplace.”
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact
on health outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market,
what would be the best means of doing so?
If CMS were to introduce, and incentivize the use of, a single,
federated identity provider (such as Login.gov) for all digital health
experiences for Medicare beneficiaries, it would have direct access to
digital health product authentication metrics for Medicare
beneficiaries. It can then cross-reference those metrics with
outcomes, based on the beneficiary claims data that CMS already
collects.
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to
patients or their caregivers or both?
• a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and
other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims
data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
Prescription drug price data, particularly the historical net price
and cost-sharing liability, for every Part D and MAPD plan, should be
publicly available. This would enable both CMS and Medicare
beneficiaries to save billions of dollars a year on prescription drug
spend. Congress granted CMS authority to require that information
to be published, by the plans, in CAA 2021, and CMS issued an
associated regulation (the Health Plan Price Transparency Final
Rule), but has chosen not to enforce it for several years.

PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient
demographic, Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D), what
additional CMS data sources do developers view as most valuable for inclusion
in the API to enable more useful digital products for patients and caretakers?
• a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today?
Yes. The Blue Button 2.0 API currently only returns Part D claims for
Medicare beneficiaries on MAPD plans.
• b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API experience?
The Blue Button 2.0 API should be updated to return Part C claims
for Medicare beneficiaries on MA plans (once they have been
submitted to CMS by those MA plans). While these claims are often
available directly from MA plans via the Patient Access API, adding
support in Blue Button 2.0 reduces the burden on Medicare
beneficiaries attempting to retrieve those claims, as they would not
need to authenticate into individual MA plan portals.
• c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API?
Yes.
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement TM
(TEFCA TM) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in
the real world?
• a. Please provide specific examples.
TEFCA’s impact on advancing patient access to health information,
through the IAS XP, is unfortunately currently minimal.
• b. What changes would you suggest?
A major shortcoming of TEFCA IAS is that Record Locator Services
are currently operated by individual QHINs, and thus present
heterogeneous user experiences to patients, depending on which
QHIN their providers happened to be participating in TEFCA
through. For instance, Epic, in its capacity as a QHIN, currently
requires that each patient individually authenticate with each
Participant (i.e., Epic customer) at which they have records. This is

required due to the liability that would be incurred, by Epic and/or
their customers, in the event of an improper disclosure of PHI,
resulting from an incorrect match of the end user to a given patient
record at an Epic customer that is a TEFCA Participant.
CMS can rectify this shortcoming in two phases:
1. In the short run, by partnering with HHS OCR to exercise
enforcement discretion, with respect to the HIPAA Privacy Rule, for
improper disclosures of PHI, by TEFCA QHINs and (Sub)Participants,
for the IAS XP, due to incorrect patient matches. For instance, a safe
harbor could be created for any such improper disclosures that
occur via a QHIN using an ASTP-approved patient matching
algorithm. The ONC Patient Matching Challenge, from 2017, has
plenty of prior art to draw on, for which algorithms should be
approved for a safe harbor.
2. In the long run, by having the RCE operate a centralized RLS that
supports CMS/ASTP-approved digital identity credentials.
• c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA?
Care navigation applications would become much easier to use if
implemented through TEFCA, as they would be able to seamlessly
take into account the user’s medical history, as well as where they
had received care in the past.
• g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread patient
access to their health information?
No, there are not.
PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to
advance patient access to health information in the real world?
• a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?
While HIEs play an important role in the health tech ecosystem and
care delivery landscape today, they are highly variable in terms of
the accuracy and freshness of the data they deliver.
• b. What changes would you suggest?
Over time, CMS and ASTP should consolidate all existing use cases
that rely on HIEs to TEFCA. This will reduce provider IT overhead

associated with accessing and utilizing overlapping interoperability
networks.
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information
blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would
be the impact? Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively
impact data exchange?
The single biggest step that CMS/ASTP can take to encourage
patients and caregivers to submit information blocking complaints
to the Information Blocking Portal is to rapidly and publicly action
submitted information blocking complaints, so that the public sees
evidence that submission of complaints produces real results.
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
• a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use digital
identity credentials?
The single biggest challenge, in getting patients/caregivers to sign
up and use digital identity credentials from NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL
CSPs, is that they are not useful today. The vast majority of digital
health product experiences do not offer authentication options that
utilize credentials from those CSPs. Most importantly, that includes
CMS-regulated plans’ member portals and Certified EHRs’ patient
portals.
For instance, the vast majority of Certified EHR’s patient portals, and
CMS-regulated plan’s member portals, do not support user
authentication with credentials from one of those CSPs. Even CMS’s
own beneficiary-facing website, Medicare.gov, does not have support
for such an option.
• b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were
more widely used?
More widespread use of digital identity credentials, from NIST 800-
63-3 IAL2/AAL CSPs, is the single biggest step that CMS could take to
empower Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers to access and
utilize digital health products and experiences.
Without identity verification and authentication experiences that

are user friendly while also meeting enterprise security
requirements, any downstream efforts to design and build digital
health products will not reach the vast majority of Medicare
beneficiaries. Today, they struggle with the status quo of password-
first, multifactor authentication workflows.
• c. What are the potential downsides?
1. If not implemented with the user (Medicare beneficiary)
experience kept top of mind, the identity verification and/or
authentication experiences will prove far too cumbersome for
Medicare beneficiaries to complete.
For instance, the current IAL2 identity verification experience
often involves the use of a mobile device’s camera to take
pictures of oneself and/or one’s photo ID. Requiring users to
complete such a step will inevitably result in the vast majority of
Medicare beneficiaries opting out.
2. If CMS-regulated plans and Medicare providers do not offer
digital experiences that support digital identity credentials,
Medicare beneficiaries will be confused by heterogeneous
identity verification and authentication experiences.
• d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information?
The use of CSPs would allow Medicare beneficiaries to utilize digital
identity credentials that they already have and use for other
purposes. For instance, Login.gov can also be used to authenticate
with SSA, allowing Medicare beneficiaries to develop familiarity with
how to use Login.gov prior to when they need to access care.
• e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving
adoption?
CMS, other payers, providers, and app developers can all help drive
adoption of digital identity credentials by making them the default
means of authentication in their digital health products and
experiences.
In particular, CMS can use its regulatory authority to ensure digital
identity credential support in authentication flows provided to

patients by CMS-regulated plans and providers using Certified EHR
Technology. See the answer to PC-14(f) for more details.
• f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials?
First, CMS should immediately use its regulatory authority to
mandate the use of a single identity provider by CMS-regulated
health plans, in their member-facing digital health experiences, and
in Certified EHR Technology, for patient portals. Ideally, that
mandated identity provider is Login.gov, which is already being
widely adopted across a variety of government services. This step
should be taken by CMS right away, as it will take time for CMS-
regulated plans and Certified EHR Technology developers to
implement support for Login.gov.
Next, CMS should partner with the GSA’s Technology Transformation
Services (TTS) team to implement support for passwordless-
authentication in Login.gov, at the IAL2 assurance level. Specifically,
Login.gov should support authentication with ID cards that have
both NFC chips and fingerprint readers. Between the ID card itself
(something the user possesses), the fingerprint reader (something
the user is), and its NFC functionality, users should be able to obtain
digital identity credentials on modern consumer technology devices
without having to remember and enter a password, or other secret.
Finally, CMS should offer Medicare beneficiaries updated Medicare
Cards, with built-in NFC and a fingerprint reader, that beneficiaries
can opt into. CMS should then pilot the use of these cards, with a
volunteer cohort of early adopter Medicare beneficiaries. In that
pilot, CMS should aim to measure a demonstrable increase in
utilization of digital health experiences by beneficiaries. Upon
successful pilot completion, CMS should partner with the Medicare
broker community to distribute updated identity cards, as well as
complete the initial identity proofing process.
PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be needed
for patients' third-party digital products to have access to administrative
workflows, such as auto-populating intake forms, viewing provider information
and schedules, and making and modifying an appointment?
Fundamentally, in order to unlock such administrative workflows in
third-party digital products, CMS and ASTP must refocus digital

health interoperability initiatives away from the gradual addition,
via new regulations, of ever more clinical data elements to the FHIR
APIs required of Certified EHRs, and towards a workflow-first
approach that prioritizes improving the administrative experience
for patients and their caregivers.
The most effective way to accomplish that is to measure, and hold
provider organizations / Certified EHR technology developers
accountable to, outcomes, rather mandating the addition of
capabilities. For instance, CMS should require providers to measure,
and improve on, year over year, metrics such as:
- The percentage of intake forms that can be populated in third
party digital products
- The percentage of providers for whom open scheduling is
supported
- The percentage of appointments that are scheduled, and
rescheduled, via open scheduling
PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials
(for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead
of proprietary logins that need to be tracked for each provider relationship?
• a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set of
trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for
each provider?
The vast majority of patient-facing digital health experiences
available from providers are built on technology from Certified EHR
Technology vendors. CMS can encourage the acceptance of digital
identity credentials by making support for them, in patient-facing
Certified EHR Technology, a Condition of Certification.
• b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience and access to digital health
products and services that may lead to significant improvements in health?
As described in the answer to PC-14(f), CMS should utilize
passwordless authentication by leveraging smart ID cards that
support NFC and have fingerprint readers, such that IAL2 remote
identity proofing is possible in a workflow that is truly usable for
Medicare beneficiaries.

TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take
to stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare
beneficiaries and caregivers?
In order to drive real change on a 2-year timescale, CMS needs to
address three major current obstacles to the development of digital
health products:
1. Awareness: Medicare beneficiaries/caregivers are generally not
aware of these products, and which are most relevant to them.
Driving that awareness is an expensive proposition for digital health
product developers
2. User experience: Medicare beneficiaries cannot rapidly
authenticate into those digital health products’ experiences and
grant them access to one’s own medical history.
3. Business model: in order to sustain their own existence, digital
health product developers have to identify a third party (e.g., a
health plan) with a vested interest in improving outcomes for the
Medicare beneficiaries who are their users, and execute an
enterprise sale to that third party.
CMS can short circuit this convoluted process, in order to see real
results within 2 years, by:
1. Repurposing and branding HealthCare.gov as the universal
healthcare front door for patients, particularly Medicare
beneficiaries. See the answer to PC-6 for more details.
2. Implementing an identity verification and authentication
experience that is usable for all patients, particularly Medicare
beneficiaries with limited digital literacy. See the answer to PC-14
for more details.
3. Partnering with ASTP and the TEFCA RCE to implement a single
RLS, so that patients only have to authenticate once. Currently, RLS’s
are being implemented at the QHIN level, effectively forcing patients
to repeatedly authenticate. See the answer to PC-10(b) for more
details.
4. Contracting with digital health product developers, through
Innovation Models, to directly pay them for interventions that
meaningfully improve health outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries.

TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
• a. What are the challenges and benefits?
The primary challenge is that digital identity credentialing
workflows are often far too complex for the majority of Medicare
beneficiaries to utilize. In order to ensure they do not end up unused
by the target user group, CMS must pilot, and iterate on, those
workflows, with focus groups of real Medicare beneficiaries.
• b. How would requiring digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybersecurity and data exchange?
Using digital identity credentials, particularly from Login.gov, can
provide the Service Provider with additional demographic
information (ex: SSN) that can be used to match a user to health
records that they already have, thereby reducing the likelihood of
improper health data disclosure.
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and
what are its limitations?
• a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
No, it does not.
• b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the way it is
utilized?
It is because of both.
• c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping
challenges? How could such challenges be addressed?
USCDI has mistakenly focused on clinical data interoperability, to
the detriment of improving the administrative workflow experience
for users. The most important missing data elements in USCDI are
regarding scheduling, while the most important missing workflows
are those that all of us regularly experience when interacting with
the medical system: completing intake forms, refilling medications,
and communicating with provider staff. None of these activities
should be gatekept to workflows in proprietary mobile/web apps
from EHR vendors.

• d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but less
structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more processing
by the receiver?
Yes, the focus on exquisitely structuring all data transmitted via
interoperability APIs has dramatically held back the pace at which
new data elements are added to those APIs.
There are two distinct groups of use cases to be addressed:
1. Administrative workflows, which require a structured read AND
write framework, for third-party applications to interact with
Certified EHRs.
2. Health data retrieval workflows, which can consist of a semi-
structured dump of all of my health data, which a language model
can then parse for me. EHI Export has created a solid foundation,
upon which to build, for this group of use cases.
TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products certified
through the ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the
capability to perform an electronic health information export or “EHI export”
for a single patient as well as for patient populations (45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)).
Such health IT developers are also required to publicly describe the format of
the EHI export. Notably, how EHI export was accomplished was left entirely to
the health IT developer. Now that this capability has been in production for
over a year, CMS and ASTP/ONC seek input on the following:
• a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requirements for EHI
export?
Yes.
• b. Are there specific workflow aspects that could be improved?
Yes, there should also be a requirement that the standardized API
can be accessed, without any additional authentication steps, from
within patient portals.
• c. Should CMS consider policy changes to support this capability's use?
Yes, it should implement new Conditions of Certification for EHI
Export, including standardized API requirements and patient portal
support.

TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
• a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
The primary shortcoming of the current implementation of price
transparency is that there is no enforcement of data quality
standards, resulting in highly variant and spotty data, with
significant backsliding since the initial deadline. CMS can rectify
these shortcomings in either of these ways:
1. Switch to a portal-based approach, whereby impacted health
plans and hospitals upload their transparency data files to a CMS
system, which confirms and approves the upload, as meeting a data
quality bar. Consumers of the data could then obtain it directly from
CMS.
2. Develop and establish a system for actively monitoring the
contents of publicly posted price transparency files and penalize
impacted health plans and hospitals who are found not to be in
compliance.
Second, price transparency regulations currently do not extend to
Part D rates, as CMS has delayed enforcement for years.
• b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
The single most important workflow that would benefit from
functional price transparency is generic drug fills. There is often
significant variance in the prices of generic drugs between
pharmacies, and consumers will be incentivized to use this
workflow, because of the potential for out-of-pocket savings.