Response to CMS RFI CMS-0042-NC: Enabling a Shoppable, Value-Based Healthcare
Marketplace
Submitted by: Tendo and its Executive Leadership team
Tendo appreciates the opportunity to provide feedback to CMS/HHS on advancing digital health
technology infrastructure and policy for Medicare beneficiaries. We purposely focused on a key
set of questions and topics most relevant to areas we have operating expertise in working with
some of the nation's largest health systems and self-insured employers.
Context:
CMS’s Request for Information on the Health Technology Ecosystem - calls for strategies to
enhance patient-facing digital tools, improve data access and interoperability, support provider
and payer adoption of innovative applications, and advance price transparency and value-based
care. This proposal demonstrates the need for technology driven consumerism and natural
market dynamics in healthcare that create improved access and address affordability.
Aligning to these themes, Tendo has consistently observed while operating a national
healthcare marketplace serving self-insured employers, that informed patients and navigators
make value-driven decisions when they can compare cost, quality, and convenient access.
Enabling this transparency creates healthy market competition, drives efficiency, and reduces
overall healthcare costs.
We have also observed that the majority of cost and complexity is in specialist care, including all
procedures, surgeries, and diagnostics. Within this specialist care setting, upwards of 60-70%
of care is planned, well known journeys, and could benefit from prospective episode bundles to
align incentives to efficiency and provide clarity of total cost of care without surprises. We have
also observed that the current quality ranking systems such as CMS stars, US news, and
leapfrog are not clear or useful for the average consumer and not specific enough.
Response & Additional Information:
We would like to provide additional perspective in response to several questions posed in
specific sections of this RFI:
PC-4: Filling the Gap in Patient-Facing Apps With respect to PC-4, Medicare
beneficiaries and caregivers today lack an integrated shopping experience that
combines searching and discovery of care services through transparent, episode-level
bundled pricing with quality metrics. A powerful e‑commerce-style GenAI search would
let users optimize on location, cost, and quality, empowering patients to navigate care
with confidence. Post purchasing should streamline access and scheduling through
FHIR apis and digital referral handoffs.

PC-5: Driving Adoption Through Incentives and Workflow Integration Regarding
PC-5, we believe CMS can spark patient and caregiver interest by launching a
centralized marketplace portal featuring up‑front bundle pricing, integrated with providers
click‑to‑schedule workflows that pass digital patient referrals directly to clinical
operations staff. This redefines what a referral is and CMS can use incentives like
waiving co-pays and deductibles to ensure members utilize prospective episode
bundles. Current capitation models used in ACOs and MA plans can cleanly embed
episode bundles to properly involve specialist care in value-based programs and risk
models.
PC-12: Unlocking Operational Use Cases, highlights critical use cases such as
“finding the right provider,” access to “binding costs,” and visibility into “quality metrics.”
These goals directly align with building a shoppable healthcare experience—one that
allows patients to see the total cost of an episode of care and compare provider quality
in a meaningful, procedure-specific way. Once provider info, pricing and quality was
available to shop, the next key piece of information is access and scheduling. If Agentic
AI could leverage standard policies and FHIR APIs that allow a navigator AI Agent to
auto schedule with a provider front office AI Agent, an immense amount of time will be
said.
TD-19: Transforming Price Transparency into Actionable Shopping Tools,
highlights the current limitations of price transparency. We believe the next policy
evolution is to make price transparency actionable—enabling patients to not only
compare options but also purchase care directly. In other words, to treat healthcare
like e-commerce. The proper technology solution will engineer away the harder parts of
implementing shoppable care and episode bundles. Specifically, an escrow‑style
pre‑payment voucher system can guarantee bundled all-in upfront pricing, deliver
consistent costs, remove the need for prior-auths, and using the existing claims rails
enable auto adjudication of the bundle voucher for quick payment to providers. This
reduces surprise billing and administrative overhead, while delivering on the experience
of e-commerce. The underlying technology needs to be a payment rails system
integrated with TPAs for collection and EMRs for payment distribution to all parties in the
bundle.
VB-2 and VB-10: These value-based care sections emphasize the need for technology
that supports clinical quality measurement, risk adjustment, and value-based models like
episode-of-care bundles. These goals are best served by platforms that streamline care
delivery and payment through bundled, pre-negotiated, and quality-assured offerings.
Bundles inherently include outcomes tracking and guarantees, ensuring no extra
payment for redoing or fixing surgeries. This is a key incentive alignment for specialists,
being paid all-in up-front encourages reducing complexity, increasing efficiency and
costs, and aligning operations to successful outcomes. This serves as a more palatable
form of risk for providers, a risk they are directly in control of and can manage, instead of
global risk models where attribution and responsibility is a major issue. The proper
technology solution will need to support a vast variety of condition specific bundle

configurations and risk parameters. The technology should also integrate with patient
experience technology to capture patient reported outcomes that feedback into the
overall quality scoring system.
Conclusion:
We strongly encourage CMS to explore and support models that enable this level of consumer
engagement and simplification. A marketplace built on transparent binding costs, useful quality
metrics, and seamless ecommerce workflows can help modernize Medicare, expand patient
choice, and improve affordability through natural market dynamics and incentivizing efficiency.
Impact we’ve seen a healthcare marketplace with transactional cost and quality have on the
commercial self-insured space:
● 20-40% avg savings off commercial rates for self-insured employers when providers
can price for this simplified commerce model and not claims complexities.
● $245MM in savings for patients and employers across 350k procedures and surgeries
● 7,250 clinics including hospitals, ASCs, and group practices offering direct contracts
and episode bundles to simplify their workflows
● 92 Patient NPS when using the marketplace to purchase healthcare and not avoiding
care b/c of costs or lack of clarity on quality outcomes
Tendo has a mature and proven technology solution that meets the needs outlined in this RFI
response, which can be white labeled and launched as an embedded part of a CMS/HHS
branded portal or app. We would welcome following up during an RFP process to provide a
demonstration system for quick proof of concept exploration.
Contact:
Dan@tendo.com and Ben@tendo.com for followup information
Submitted on: June 13, 2025