February 23, 2026
Submitted Electronically
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., JD, LLM
Secretary
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: HHS Health Sector AI RFI (RIN 0955-AA13)
On behalf of the more than 10,000 physiatrists of the American Academy of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AAPM&R), we appreciate the opportunity to
submit comments in response to the Department of Health and Human Services
Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence (AI) as Part of Clinical Care. AAPM&R is the national medical specialty
organization representing physicians who are specialists in physical medicine and
rehabilitation (PM&R). PM&R physicians, also known as physiatrists, treat a wide
variety of medical conditions affecting the brain, spinal cord, nerves, bones, joints,
ligaments, muscles, and tendons. PM&R physicians evaluate and treat injuries,
illnesses, and disability and are experts in designing comprehensive, patient-
centered treatment plans. Physiatrists utilize cutting-edge
as well as time-tested treatments to maximize function and quality of life.
AAPM&R agrees that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has a
significant role in shaping the environment in which AI is used in healthcare. As
such, we are grateful for the opportunity to provide feedback on barriers in
regulation and reimbursement associated with AI implementation. Our Academy
and our membership have been exploring the role of AI in clinical care as well as
the role it can play in administrative tasks associated with practicing medicine. We
are encouraged by the opportunities available and the potential positive impact on
patient health outcomes and physician wellbeing. However, we urge caution with
respect to rapid implementation of AI tools without clear guardrails. Though we
recognize the need to be nimble as technologies are evolving quickly,
advancements in healthcare require adequate infrastructure, regulation, and
reimbursement.
Regulation
Current regulatory categories do not neatly fit AI tools in rehabilitation. This can
lead to clinician hesitation to adopt tools without clear expectations for privacy,
safety, validation, transparency, and liability. To address this limitation, greater

clarity is needed to provide clinicians certainty regarding their risks and responsibilities and to facilitate
greater comfort with the adoption of new technologies.
AAPM&R recommends HHS explore regulation around “black box” technologies. Specifically, without
sharing proprietary information or protected health information, AI companies should be required to make
their algorithms and data sources transparent and include physicians in the development of algorithms.
This will help move the needle toward creating trust and understanding. Physiatrists are especially
concerned that “black box” AI may underrepresent pertinent information from persons with disabilities.
This lack of trust leads to hesitation around adoption. Transparency in algorithms and physician
involvement may lead to more confident adoption and widespread use of AI and facilitate partnerships
between AI companies and the physician community to better address the needs of certain populations
such as persons with disabilities.
AAPM&R also underscores the importance of physician judgment in clinical care, and the need to ensure
that a physician – in collaboration with the patient - is the ultimate decision maker. We recommend that
HHS establish requirements that physician oversight is required when AI is used for treatment decisions.
Likewise, we recommend that physician review be required when AI is used in making insurance or prior
authorization determinations, in order to ensure necessary human oversight.
AAPM&R also recommends HHS review HIPAA regulations to consider the need for updates related to
privacy and security risks associated with AI and other new technology innovations. At a minimum,
physicians and the medical community should be provided with modernized guidance around HIPAA
compliance related to AI use in research, administrative tasks, and clinical care. Absent clear, up-to-date
guidance, physicians are hesitant to implement cutting edge technologies.
Reimbursement
For physician practices, cost or affordability of AI continues to be a significant barrier to implementation of
AI. While this applies to all practices, cost can be particularly burdensome for small group practices, private
practices, solo practitioners, and rural practices. AI technologies require significant investment of both
time and financial resources without a guaranteed return on investment. AAPM&R recommends
thoughtful exploration of reimbursement policy with respect to the range of AI technologies, including in
the Medicare program.
Current reimbursement for AI-supported care is limited due to a lack of straightforward connection
between AI and the current fee-for-service payment structure. We recognize that the American Medical
Association’s (AMA’s) Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) Editorial Panel is working to modernize the
CPT code set to accommodate the range of rapidly emerging technologies including AI-enabled care.
AAPM&R recommends HHS and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) support this
development of new coding pathways for digital healthcare. Further, when it comes to reimbursement for
AI tools, we are concerned that paying for high-cost AI equipment under the current Medicare physician
fee schedule (MPFS) may become unsustainable due to budget neutrality rules. We urge HHS and CMS to

explore mechanisms for paying for AI equipment that do not negatively impact payment for physician
services under the MPFS.
Beyond fee-for-service, AI tools are likely also to be an asset in alternative payment models (APMs). We
are concerned, however, that AI is being used in APMs without the guidance and input from the physician
community. We strongly recommend that clinical experts are at the table when discussing incorporation of
AI into APMs – including in the model conceptualization and development phases. Furthermore, to
appropriately motivate physician use of AI in APMs, HHS should work with the CMS Innovation Center to
appropriately incorporate AI costs into model benchmarks and spending calculations. If these costs are not
properly captured, physicians and hospitals will struggle to invest in new technologies necessary to
succeed under new models.
Conclusion
Thank you for your consideration of our comments. If you have any questions or would like more
information regarding any of the recommendations offered above, please contact Carolyn Millett, Senior
Director of Practice, Reimbursement, and Regulatory Affairs at cmillett@aapmr.org or (847) 737-6024.
Sincerely,
Susan Hubbell, MD, FAAPMR
Chair, Health Policy, Practice, and Advocacy Committee