CMS RFI
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/05/16/2025-08701/request-for-information-health-technology-ecosystem
B. Patients and Caregivers
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to
use cases and workflows that involve patients and caregivers. While we certainly want
patients and caregivers to answer questions in this section (and in other sections) from the
patient/caregiver point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on
the patient/caregiver workflows.
1. Patient Needs
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and
manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take?
As someone who could be considered more “tech savvy” than some of my loved ones, I
would appreciate an app that would make scheduling appts, sending reminders, tracking
healthcare notes, medications, and all other needs accessible to me online. Something
that would allow me to access my own “EMR” of sorts. This would allow me and my loved
ones to be more up to date and have better health literacy. For example, the U has an app
called MyChart where you can see every med you take, all past appt notes, upcoming
appts, scheduling, billing, and messaging. I’ve seen this app help patients be more health
literate and advocate for themselves because they know what is going on.
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones' health
that can be enabled by digital health products?
Medication management, appointment scheduling and tracking, health history, recent
labs, communication between providers, and links to health information that is applicable
to the patient.
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things you
would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be
supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future.
Billing would be top priority for me because it’s difficult to navigate and understand. I would
also like help with medication management with indications, when, how, what I take, etc.. I
like to rely on them to schedule appointments when I need them because it’s hard to keep
track.
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information in
one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)?

Not my relatives, but I have a patient portal for myself.
a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided?
I appreciate being able to see billing information and providers notes during my appts. I
know many patients use it to track medication.
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one portal
or system to access all such health information?
Keeping everything in one easy spot is nice for accessibility.
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were
unavailable? What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones' complete
health information electronically and using it for managing health conditions or finding the
best care (for example, limitations in functionality, user friendliness, or access to basic
technology infrastructure)?
Sometimes apps or websites can feel like navigating a maze. Having access or knowing
where to find labs, x-rays, notes, etc can be a challenge if it is not in an obvious, easy to
see, way.
PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or personal health record
apps that would be useful to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers?
Apps like MyChart from the University of Utah
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today?
Direct communication with providers or access to treatment plans.
a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet?
Apps that could keep track of patient's medical records, but it’s hard to keep a universal
system.
b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer?
Possibly an app like MyChart where patients can have access to all healthcare related
needs and information. On top of that, providing accessible health information that can
help navigate diagnoses or treatments.
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in
these digital health products?

Improved health literacy, compliance, medical safety, and overall safer and better health
outcomes for all involved parties, which would also be more cost effective in the long run.
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on
the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in
the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review
process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can
increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example,
enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary
communications)?
CMS should provide data security and patient privacy within the app in compliance with
HIPAA laws and government entities, ensuring that only authorized individuals can access
sensitive health information. This app should also address health disparities and improve
access to care for underserved populations and be accessible to individuals with diverse
needs and abilities. It should be clear and easy to navigate.
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated
data on patients?
Universal health system for patient portals
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and
easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior
experience using digital tools and services?
Clear tabs/menu options, notifications, calendar tool, not needing to click through
multiple tabs to find something.
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health
outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the
best means of doing so?
To get patient's thoughts, a survey to assess opinions on using a digital health product. For
example, “On a scale of 1-10, 10 being most knowledgeable, how do you feel like using this
product improved your healthcare knowledge” or “This product made healthcare more
accessible for me, agree, disagree”.
2. Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or
their caregivers or both?

Paperwork can be helpful to give information about medication, diagnosis, and billing, on
both sides.
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and
other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example,
claims data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment
schedules, prices)?
Billing information (itemized billing information), encounter notes, medications, prices,
claims
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of
highest value, and why?
Medication management so patients know what they are taking.
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility,
interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable
more meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence?
A universal data tool where every entity that provides healthcare can access and chart so
patients can see information from every visit.
PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient demographic,
Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D), what additional CMS data sources do
developers view as most valuable for inclusion in the API to enable more useful digital
products for patients and caretakers?
Medication management, chart reviews, eligibilities
a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today?
Different healthcare facilities chart differently, and there is no uniform online patient portal
to use.
b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API experience?
Add more clinical information
c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API?
Medication management and appointment summaries

PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common AgreementTM (TEFCATM)
currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world?
It serves as a national framework that connects these separate healthcare networks,
creating a single, secure way for health information to be shared across the country.
a. Please provide specific examples.
Both the California hospital and the Utah doctor are connected to different "Qualified
Health Information Networks" (QHINs), which are now linked by TEFCA. The Utah doctor
can instantly and securely request the patient's full electronic record from the California
hospital through their QHIN.
b. What changes would you suggest?
Provide stronger financial incentives, grants, or technical assistance for smaller practices,
rural hospitals, and independent providers to join QHINs.
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA?
When a patient is unconscious or unable to communicate, TEFCA would allow clinicians to
instantly access their complete medical history, including allergies, current medications,
pre-existing conditions, past surgeries, and emergency contacts, regardless of where the
patient has previously received care.
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access
and existing exchange purposes?
None that I am aware of.
e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could
improve data access and integration?
None that I am aware of.
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be
consolidated?
Many healthcare groups use two different ways to share data (HL7 v2 and FHIR) or find it
hard to switch from the old way. If everyone just used FHIR as the main standard, it would
make building new systems much easier, cut down on costs, and unlock data for more
powerful apps and analysis.
g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread patient
access to their health information?

Nothing widespread.
PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient
access to health information in the real world?
These systems help healthcare teams to get a full picture of a patients health quickly,
leading to better coordinated, accessible, and safer care.
a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?
Sometimes they transfer information well but it can be hard to access. It may take longer to
find information rather than just calling the facility.
b. What changes would you suggest?
Ensure the system clearly indicates data location and mandate the timely upload of
accurate information.
c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe
should be propagated across markets?
Care Everywhere can be a helpful tool that allows Epic EMRs to see other facility notes.
d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities facilitating data exchange and
broader frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health information
networks, TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)?
HIEs continue to be vital as regional connectors, linking local doctors, hospitals, and
smaller clinics that national networks might miss. They act as neutral, trusted hubs for
sharing data within communities, helping with public health and offering specialized local
services.
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients and
caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate
barriers to competition among providers or both?
Making real-time, personalized cost estimates and easily viewing provider
availability for quick booking would greatly simplify care navigation. Provide clear
patient-facing quality data and ensuring seamless data transfer during referrals.
a. Examples may include the following:
1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods.
2) Viewing provider schedule availability.
3) Using third-party apps for appointment management.

4) Accessing patient-facing quality metrics.
5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs.
a. What use cases are possible today?
b. What should be possible in the near future?
c. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve?
3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking
complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would
increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange?
Launch clear public awareness campaigns and making the reporting process super simple.
This would directly empower individuals to ensure their data access rights are honored.
Increasing these complaints would ultimately advance data exchange by holding those
who unfairly block information accountable, forcing better sharing practices across the
healthcare system.
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other
NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use
digital identity credentials?
Getting patients and caregivers to use strong digital identity credentials is hard because the
sign-up process is often complicated and confusing. Many people don't see enough
immediate benefit to justify the effort, and they have privacy worries about sharing
sensitive health data. Plus, these credentials aren't yet accepted everywhere, so patients
still need multiple logins.
b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were
more widely used?
If widely used, digital identity credentials would mean patients and caregivers could
securely and easily access all their health information and services with just one trusted
login. This would drastically reduce the hassle of multiple passwords and paper forms,
making care navigation smoother and more efficient. Ultimately, it enhances both security
and patient control over sensitive health data.
c. What are the potential downsides?

It could unfairly exclude those without tech access, like the elderly or low-income. It also
creates a huge target for data breaches, risking a person's entire health profile. There are
also concerns about losing control over personal data and the complexity of managing
access for caregivers, along with the risk of system failures that could block access to care.
d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information?
This would simplify how patients access their health information. Instead of managing
many different usernames and passwords for various doctors and hospitals, people could
use one secure, verified login. This consistent, trusted method would make getting and
sharing health data much easier and safer for everyone.
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving
adoption?
CMS and other payers should incentivize and eventually require the use of these digital IDs,
ensuring consistent standards for their acceptance. Healthcare providers must integrate
these logins into their systems and actively educate patients on their benefits. App
developers need to create user-friendly and valuable apps that truly leverage these secure
identities to make patient health management easier.
f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials?
CMS can encourage patients to get digital identity credentials by clearly showing them how
it makes managing their Medicare benefits easier and safer, perhaps through targeted
campaigns. They should also integrate it seamlessly into existing services, making it the
most convenient way to access their health information and reducing any sign-up hassles.
C. Providers
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to
use cases and workflows that involve providers. While we certainly want providers to
answer questions in this section (and in other sections) from the provider's point of view,
we also invite all stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the provider's workflows as
appropriate.
1. Digital Health Apps
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural
areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for their
patients?
a. What are the current obstacles?

- Education hurdles: Healthcare providers have to go through training programs
(webinars, hands-on workshops, interactive and engaging programs).
Additionally, educating patients is equally crucial
- Cost and financial constraints: investing in digital health tech involves upfront
costs (purchasing the software, implementation, training, maintenance,
hardware upgrades)
- Data security and privacy concerns: identity theft to the loss of patient trust
o To prevent that, healthcare organizations need to adopt strong encryption
technologies, implement access controls, regular security assessments
and audits, employee training and awareness, incident response plans =>
costly
- Resistance to change: a complex mis of fear, uncertainty, and lack of
understanding due to fear of unknown, lack of awareness (seem like an
unnecessary complication rather than a valuable tool), perceived threats to job
security, and importantly, comfort with current practices
b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products
in the provision of their care?
Providers should share detailed information with patients about the digital products
(purpose, how they work, any potential benefits and risks); data privacy and security
measures (access to the data, how it will be shared between providers or third
parties, their rights regarding their data)
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending the use of a digital
product by a patient?
- Ensure that patients clearly understand and know how to use the product as well
as its specific features and functions
- Inform patients about the privacy and security safeguards in place to protect
their information and their rights regarding their data (access, correct, or delete)
- Ensure that patients acknowledge any potential risks (errors, security breaches,
or possibility of inaccurate information)
- Provide instructions or any necessary training or support to address any
concerns or questions they may have
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization of
the most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality
measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these
obstacles be mitigated?
- Quality and safety considerations: the lack of clarity regarding AI content liability

-> in cases of errors that harm patients, currently, there is no precise line of responsibility
between healthcare providers, regulators, and app developers.
- Data privacy and security: potential for data breaches and identity theft
-> healthcare organizations need robust safeguards to protect patient information from
unauthorized access, breaches, or misuse
- Inequality in access: not everyone has equal access to digital devices, internet
connectivity, or technology, such as low-income individuals or older adults
- System compatibility issues: apps may not be compatible with current systems, or
healthcare platforms => healthcare staffs will need to be introduced and trained the new
system
- Although the use of a digital product enhances convenience and efficiency for both
providers and patients, many physicians question the accuracy and reliability of data
collected and information
PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural
areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage
format (for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes,
structured data fields)? Please address all the following:
a. Current challenges in accessing different data formats.
- Different EHR systems use varying formats => causing duplication of patient
records, incomplete or inaccurate information
- There is no universal standard for EHR interoperability, which can lead to
confusion and impede data exchange
- Sharing patient data across systems raises concerns about data security and
privacy
- Budget and costs: healthcare organizations and technical developers need to
implement a modern interoperable health system
b. Impact on patient care quality.
- Improved access and efficient care coordination – sharing medical records,
allowing physicians to timely access to critical information for patient safety,
particularly during emergencies; dealing with transportation or access issues in
rural patients (elderly, low-income, or underserved populations) => receive
continuous, coordinated care even on multiple healthcare providers or services
- Patients in rural areas can access their own healthcare records and engage more
actively in their care (communicate effectively with providers, schedule
appointments, access lab results, and prescription orders)

- Data sharing for disease surveillance enables rural healthcare providers to
report on disease trends, outbreaks, or chronic disease patterns.
c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility.
Limited resources that can prevent rural healthcare communities from full data
accessibility include no fast-speed internet access and limited technologies,
limited technical expertise, rural areas may use different EHR systems than larger
urban hospitals => more challenging to exchange information
d. Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable.
- Reduced healthcare costs by avoiding duplicated tests, reduced travel costs and
time, low hospitalization costs, and reduced cost in manually managing and
sharing data across different systems (reduced overall healthcare expenses)
- Rural hospitals often struggle to afford the necessary technology infrastructure
for EMR, ongoing maintenance fees, high standards for data privacy and security
- In case of moving from one healthcare software platform to another, some
healthcare organizations may pay at least 3-4 different types of fees: Software
License fees to “turn on” certain modules, software maintenance fees for those
modules, Professional service fees for the vendors to implement, and possible
“per transaction” fees
e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs.
Access to all data in EHRs, regardless of format, should be a high priority need for
interoperability. A standardized, structured data exchange is foundational to
system-to-system exchange to support effective workflows and safely accessing
and sharing data across systems, especially during emergencies
PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be needed for
patients' third-party digital products to have access to administrative workflows, such as
auto-populating intake forms, viewing provider information and schedules, and making and
modifying an appointment?
ensure patient confidentiality, easily and have fast access to their health records and
treatment plans, more effectively communicating with providers and nurses
2. Data Exchange
PR-5. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you already support or utilize in
your provider organization's systems, directly or through an intermediary? For each,
describe the transaction model, use case, whether you use individual queries or bulk
transactions, and any constraints:

a. Patient Access API.
- Transaction Model: OAuth 2.0
- Use Case: provide a secure mechanism for the app to obtain an access
token, which is then used to access the FHIR server and retrieve the
patient’s data => ensures that only authorized individuals and apps can
access the data
- Query Types: authorization code and token request (making a request to
the authorization server’s token endpoint)
- Constraints:
o Secure Access Control: implementing strict access control
mechanisms to limit access to sensitive data to only authorized
personnel or apps
o Strong authentication: implementing strong authentication
methods like multi-factor authentication (MFA) to protect user
accounts
b. Standardized API for Patient and Population Services.
- Transaction Model: FHIR API aligned with ONC Certification Criteria
c. Provider Directory API.
d. Provider Access API.
e. Player-to-Payer API.
f. Prior Authorization API.
g. Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based access filtering for population-specific
queries?
h. SMART on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and standalone app access?
What does the process for application deployment entail?
i. CDS Hooks (for clinical decision support integrations).
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health information?
a. Please provide specific examples.
- Ensuring that a primary source of data is always available for providers for info
exchange purposes, including diagnosis, prescriptions, and more
- Reducing provider costs by reducing the need to create multiple point-to-point
interfaces
- Providing providers with a common set of security and privacy requirements to
more effectively protect patients' data
b. What changes would you like to make?

- There are some limitations in accessing to medical records and requests to send
records to third parties (not broad enough)
- Needs to improve on providing all the necessary data sharing for comprehensive
care coordination
- More accurate and reliable patient matching is essential for effective data
exchange
- Lower cost and technical barriers for small providers and technical developers
c. What other options are available outside of TEFCA?
EHealth Exchange, CommonWell Alliance, and Carequality
d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that could be
consolidated?
- TEFCA vs. Direct Secure Messaging – direct messaging is still widely used for
point-to-point messaging (referrals, for example), although TEFCA allows
nationwide query-based care access
PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality,
timely, and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital
product ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be
mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics that providers are already
motivated to optimize for that could be reused for, or combined with, efforts needed to
support interoperability?
CMS can support providers in making high-quality data available by standardizing data
formats like FHIR and offering financial incentives for interoperability. To mitigate burden,
they should streamline reporting and enable automated data extraction from EHRs. This
can be achieved by showing providers how interoperability improves existing workflows for
efficient care and accurate billing.
PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data
responsibilities of providers?
Standardizing quality measures and reporting formats across different programs and
payers. They should also promote the use of automated data extraction via APIs directly
from EHRs, reducing manual data collection and submission burdens on providers.
a. What would be the benefits and downsides of using Bulk FHIR data exports from
EHRs to CMS to simplify clinical quality data submissions? Can CMS reduce the
burden on providers by performing quality metrics calculations leveraging Bulk FHIR
data exports?

Benefits include significantly reducing provider burden by automating data submission and
enabling CMS to perform calculations, ensuring greater data consistency and accuracy.
Downsides involve ensuring the quality and completeness of the bulk FHIR data,
addressing security and privacy concerns for large datasets, and the need for robust data
mapping and validation on CMS's end. Yes, CMS can reduce the burden by performing
calculations if they receive standardized, high-quality Bulk FHIR data.
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of
providers be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed?
Responsibilities can be consolidated by aligning quality measures across CMS and private
payers, ensuring providers can collect data once to meet multiple reporting needs.
Mandating FHIR-based APIs for both interoperability and quality reporting allows providers'
IT investments to serve both data exchange and submission purposes.
c. Are there requirements CMS should consider for data registries to support digital
quality measurement in a more efficient manner? Are there requirements CMS
should consider for data registries that would support access to real-time quality
data for healthcare providers to inform clinical care in addition to simplifying
reporting processes?
Yes, CMS should require data registries to support FHIR-based data submission and real-
time data exchange capabilities using standardized APIs. Registries should also be
mandated to provide actionable, real-time feedback and performance insights directly
back to providers through their EHRs, enabling immediate clinical improvements in
addition to simplifying reporting.
3. Digital Identity
PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials (for
example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of proprietary
logins that need to be tracked for each provider relationship?
Mandating their acceptance through regulations, offering financial incentives for adoption,
and highlighting how a single trusted login reduces administrative burden from managing
many proprietary accounts.
a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set of
trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for
each provider?

Clear technical guidance and implementation support for integrating these credentials into
existing EHRs and workflows. They also need training for staff and assurance that adopting
these systems will genuinely reduce their administrative overhead and improve efficiency.
b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience and access to digital
health products and services that may lead to significant improvements in health?
Implementing strong, auditable privacy-enhancing technologies alongside digital identity
solutions, such as granular consent management that allows patients to control who sees
what data. They must also educate patients on their data rights and the security measures
in place, building trust while promoting the clear health benefits of seamless digital
access.
PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other
NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs):
a. What are the challenges and benefits for providers?
For providers, digital identity credentials offer benefits like enhanced security for patient
data, streamlined login processes across systems, and reduced administrative burden
from managing multiple passwords. Challenges include the initial effort for integration into
existing workflows and systems, and ensuring all staff are trained on their use.
b. How would requiring their use improve access to health information?
Improve secure access to health information by providing a consistent, trusted way for
patients and authorized providers to log in to various health systems. This single, high-
assurance identity would eliminate fragmented access issues and simplify obtaining
comprehensive patient data across different healthcare organizations.
c. What are the potential downsides?
Risk of excluding individuals without easy access to technology or digital literacy, creating a
single point of failure for widespread access if a system is compromised, and initial
implementation costs and complexities for healthcare organizations. There are also
ongoing concerns about privacy if not managed transparently.
d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a nationwide provider directory?
Enhance the accuracy and reliability of a nationwide provider directory by ensuring provider
identities are verified and consistently linked to their data. This would enable more
trustworthy and real-time updates to provider information and their associated FHIR
endpoints, improving its utility for all users.

e. How could digital identity implementation improve provider data flow?
Improve provider data flow by enabling secure, automated authentication for system-to-
system communication and API-based data exchange, removing manual verification steps.
It fosters trust between data-sharing entities, allowing for more seamless and efficient
transfer of patient information between disparate systems.
f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data flow?
Yes, it ensures that when a system requests data from a FHIR endpoint, the identity of the
requester is securely and consistently verified, allowing for trusted, targeted, and
compliant exchange of specific health information.
PR-11. How could members of trust communities [3] (for example, QHINs, participants and
sub participants in TEFCA, which requires Identity Assurance Level 2 (IAL2) via Credential
Service Providers (CSPs)) better support the goals of reduced provider and patient burden
while also enhancing identity management and security?
Trust communities can reduce provider and patient burden while enhancing identity
management and security by fully leveraging standardized IAL2 digital identity credentials
for seamless, multi-system access. This means consistently accepting one trusted login
for patients and providers across all participating entities, eliminating proprietary logins
and redundant identity verification steps. By doing so, they not only streamline workflows
and reduce password fatigue but also significantly bolster security by relying on high-
assurance identity proofing for all data exchanges.
4. Information Blocking
PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information blocking
exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subparts B through D) to
further the access, exchange, and use of electronic health information (EHI) and to
promote market competition?
Yes, ASTP/ONC should consider revising or removing some information blocking
exceptions. The main goal would be to make it much easier for patients and other providers
to access and share electronic health information, which also encourages more
competition among healthcare services.
PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(3)), without a
current information blocking disincentive established by CMS, what would be the most
effective disincentive for that category of provider?

For healthcare providers not yet facing penalties for information blocking, the most
effective disincentive would likely be tying compliance directly to their revenue or program
participation. This means either implementing financial penalties or reducing their
eligibility for federal programs like Medicare or Medicaid. Hitting their bottom line or ability
to operate within key programs would strongly incentivize them to share patient data.
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance or
negatively impact data exchange?
Make the reporting process clear, easy, and secure. They should also highlight how
reporting helps create a fairer data-sharing environment for everyone. This would
significantly advance data exchange by holding those who block information accountable,
ultimately improving patient care and promoting healthier competition within the
healthcare system.
D. Payers
PA-1. What policy or technical limitations do you see in TEFCA? What changes would you
suggest to address those limitations? To what degree do you expect these limitations to
hinder participation in TEFCA?
Voluntary participation and managing varied privacy rules across states are possible
limitations. These limitations could slow down widespread adoption, as providers might
wait for stronger incentives or clearer technical guidance before fully committing.
PA-2. How can CMS encourage payers to accelerate the implementation and utilization of
APIs for patients, providers, and other payers, similar to the Blue Button 2.0 and Data at the
Point of Care APIs released by CMS?
Continue to mandate use through regulations, with clear deadlines and enforcement. Offer
incentives for early adopters or those exceeding basic requirements, alongside providing
robust technical guidance and support to ease the implementation burden.
PA-3. How can CMS encourage payers to accept digital identity credentials (for example,
CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of proprietary logins?
Make it a rule for them to accept these trusted logins instead of their own. Offer money or
rewards to payers who adopt them quickly, and provide clear instructions and support to
make implementation easier. CMS should lead by example by fully using these digital IDs
themselves for Medicare services.

PA-4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide provider directory that included
FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials?
It would drastically reduce administrative costs and errors by ensuring highly accurate,
real-time provider information for claims and prior authorizations. This improved data
quality and accessibility would also streamline operations, leading to more efficient
processes and better experiences for their members who can easily find accurate in-
network providers.
PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities
of providers?
Standardizing data collection and reporting requirements across different health plans,
reducing varied requests. Leverage technology like FHIR-based APIs to automate data
exchange directly from providers' electronic health records.Provide actionable insights and
pre-populated data to providers, reducing the manual burden of data aggregation and
helping them focus on care improvement.
a. How interested are payers and providers in EHR technology advances that enable
bulk extraction of clinical quality data from EHRs to payers to allow them to do the
calculations instead of the provider-side technology?
Providers are highly interested in offloading the complex and burdensome process of
calculating quality measures, which currently consumes significant time and resources.
Payers are interested in receiving this data in bulk to improve accuracy, gain deeper insights
for value-based care, and reduce their own administrative costs associated with manual
data collection and validation.
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of
providers to both CMS and other payers be consolidated so investments can be
dually purposed? Are there technologies payers might leverage that would support
access to real time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical care in
addition to simplifying reporting processes?
CMS and other payers can work together to standardize quality measures and reporting
formats, ensuring providers collect data once for multiple purposes. Technologies like
FHIR-based APIs and bulk data access can then be used to automate the extraction of this
data directly from EHRs, allowing payers to perform calculations. This not only simplifies
providers' reporting burden but also provides payers with real-time quality data that can
then be shared back with providers to inform clinical decision-making.

PA-7. How can CMS encourage payers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance or
negatively impact data exchange?
Encourage payers to submit information blocking complaints by providing clear, easy-to-
use channels and publicly acknowledging the importance of their input in ensuring data
flow.
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to
use cases and workflows that involve technology vendors, data providers, and networks.
While we certainly want technology vendors, data providers, and networks to answer
questions in this section (and in other sections) from their point of view, we also invite all
stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the technology vendor, data provider, and
network use cases as appropriate.
1. Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
and caregivers?
Simplify reimbursement for digital health and expand access to Medicare data via FHIR
APIs. For longer-term growth, establish stable, adequate payment policies for digital tools,
gather strong evidence of their value, and invest in foundational digital infrastructure like
modern identity verification.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
Comprehensive, de-identified clinical data (beyond just claims), detailed provider quality
and performance metrics, and social determinants of health (SDOH) data, medication
management.
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue
Button 2.0 API?
Clinical data from Electronic Health Records (EHRs), including diagnoses, lab results,
medications, and clinical notes, Patient-Generated Health Data (PGHD) from wearables,
home monitoring devices, and patient apps would provide valuable data.
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?

Interoperability challenges between disparate EHR systems, as they often use different
formats and lack seamless data exchange capabilities, privacy concerns and complex
regulatory requirements, such as HIPAA, also restrict data flow, making secure and
compliant sharing difficult. Lack of standardization for PGHD and SDOH data, along with
workflow integration issues for providers to collect and manage this diverse information,
significantly prevent comprehensive access and utilization.
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies
to unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
CMS and ASTP/ONC should include APIs for Patient-Generated Health Data, Social
Determinants of Health, advanced clinical details, and public health reporting in their
program policies to truly unleash innovation and better support patients and providers.
2. Digital Identity
TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
a. What are the challenges and benefits?
Implementing digital identity credentials in healthcare offers key benefits like enhanced
security and streamlined access to health information, making it easier for patients and
caregivers to manage their data securely. However, significant challenges include the
complex signup process which can exclude some users, privacy concerns about data
sharing, and the ongoing need for widespread adoption across all healthcare providers.
b. How would requiring digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybersecurity and data
exchange?
It would provide stronger, more reliable identity verification for accessing sensitive health
data. For data exchange, it would streamline and secure interactions between different
systems.
c. What impact would mandatory use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol have?
This would standardize and secure user authentication across various systems and enable
seamless single sign-on (SSO) for patients and providers accessing different health
applications, reducing login fatigue and improving user experience. It would also enhance
interoperability by providing a consistent and trusted way to verify identities, which is
essential for secure health data exchange.
3. Technical Standards and Certification

TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available
APIs over proprietary APIs?
Strengthening mandates and enforcement for adoption across various payer and provider
types. Also provide clear, consistent technical guidance and implementation resources to
reduce development burden.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
A nationwide provider directory with FHIR endpoints would vastly improve health
information access for patients, providers, and payers by offering accurate, real-time data
for better care coordination and reduced administrative burden. A neutral, government-
backed entity like ONC or CMS should publish it, and users should not bear a direct cost to
ensure widespread public benefit.
TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform?
It establishes a universal policy and technical framework for health information exchange
nationwide, binding diverse networks (called QHINs) and their participants to common
rules. This enables seamless data sharing across different organizations that were
previously disconnected, especially for specific purposes like treatment, payment, public
health, and individual access
a. What existing alternatives should be considered?
Fragmented patient portals, direct EHR vendor APIs, and established regional Health
Information Exchanges (HIEs)
b. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that should be
consolidated?
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are its
limitations?
It has improved interoperability by standardizing a minimum set of health data elements for
consistent exchange, boosting patient access and reporting. However, its limitation as a
minimum dataset means much comprehensive health data remains outside its scope, and
adoption of new versions can lag.
a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
Sure

b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the way it is
utilized?
c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping
challenges? How could such challenges be addressed?
d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but
less structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more
processing by the receiver?
No
TD-8. What are the most effective certification criteria and standards under the ONC
Health IT Certification Program?
The most effective ONC certification criteria are those mandating FHIR-based APIs and the
United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI), which improve interoperability and
patient access to health data. Criteria promoting algorithmic transparency for clinical
decision support are increasingly vital for responsible health IT use.
TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT:
a. What are the benefits of redefining certification to prioritize API-enabled capabilities
over software functionality?
Prioritizing APIs would enhance interoperability, allowing different systems and apps to
exchange data more seamlessly and giving patients more choice. It also helps future-proof
health IT by ensuring data can flow flexibly as new technologies emerge.
b. What would be the drawbacks?
Increased complexity for developers needing to conform to strict API standards, potential
for security vulnerabilities if APIs are not rigorously secured, and the risk of misinterpreting
or misusing data if not properly contextualized through the API. It could also initially raise
implementation costs for some vendors.
c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certification criteria to require APIs to
consistently support exchanging data from all aspects of the patient's chart (for
example, faxed records, free text, discrete data)?
ASTP/ONC could revise criteria by mandating standardized data models for unstructured
data (like faxed or free text notes, perhaps using clinical natural language processing
standards) and requiring specific FHIR resources or extensions that can reliably carry these
data types alongside discrete data. They would need to define precise technical

requirements for how all types of patient information, once digitized, are made available via
APIs.
d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to API-
based data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
Implement performance-based incentives or disincentives, tying provider reimbursement
or participation in certain programs to the quality and completeness of data shared via
APIs. Require attestation or audits of API data quality, while simultaneously providing
resources and technical assistance to help providers meet these standards.
e. How could EHRs capable of bulk data transfer be used to reduce the burden on
providers for reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are
needed to show benefit? What concerns are there with this approach?
EHR bulk transfer can automate quality reporting, significantly reducing provider burden.
This requires standardized export and secure transmission. Concerns include data quality,
security, and provider control over the transferred information.
TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification Program,
what further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implement the 21st Century Cures Act's
API condition of certification (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv)) that requires a developer's
APIs to allow health information to be accessed, exchanged, and used without special
effort, including providing access to all data elements of a patient's electronic health
record to the extent permissible under applicable privacy laws?
Increase auditing and enforcement to ensure certified APIs are actually delivering on this
promise in real-world scenarios, including assessing the ease of app registration and user
onboarding. Furthermore, encouraging industry best practices for standardized API
documentation and testing tools would help developers build and implement compliant
systems more effectively.
TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products certified through the
ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the capability to perform an
electronic health information export or “EHI export” for a single patient as well as for
patient populations (45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)). Such health IT developers are also required to
publicly describe the format of the EHI export. Notably, how EHI export was accomplished
was left entirely to the health IT developer. Now that this capability has been in production
for over a year, CMS and ASTP/ONC seek input on the following:
a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requirements for EHI
export?

Yes, the EHI export capability should be revised to specify standardized API requirements.
This would ensure consistency, improve interoperability, and reduce fragmentation in how
data is exported. A standardized approach would simplify data exchange for patients,
providers, and other developers, ultimately making the EHI export more usable and
valuable.
b. Are there specific workflow aspects that could be improved?
Workflow improvements could focus on making the EHI export process more intuitive and
less burdensome for providers and patients. This includes streamlining the initiation of an
export, providing clearer status updates, and ensuring that the exported data is easily
understandable and usable by the recipient. Automating the notification and delivery of the
export, while maintaining security, would also be beneficial.
c. Should CMS consider policy changes to support this capability's use?
Yes, CMS should consider policy changes to actively support and incentivize the use of
standardized EHI export capabilities. This could involve tying participation in certain
programs or quality measures to the successful and routine use of EHI export, or offering
incentives for providers who demonstrate high rates of EHI export utilization. Policies could
also focus on educating patients and providers about the availability and benefits of this
capability
4. Data Exchange
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what criteria
or metrics should CMS consider? If CMS were to endorse non-CMS data sources, this
would improve accessibility and help with continuity of care. Data privacy and security
could become an issue that needs to be addressed.
TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing
access to the entirety of a patient's electronic health information (EHI)?
a. What are the primary obstacles to this? The primary obstacles include: security and
privacy concerns, data availability and access, and lack of standards and business
workflow.
b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI, especially given more
flexible data processing capabilities today? USCDI is easier to use and
patient/provider helpful. Full EHI is more comprehensive and provides more
information.
TD-14. Regarding networks' use of FHIR APIs:

a. How many endpoints is your network connected to for patient data sharing? What
types, categories, geographies of endpoints do you cover? Are they searchable by
National Provider Identifier (NPI) or organizational ID?
b. How are these connections established (for example, FHIR (g)(10) endpoints,
TEFCA/Integrating the Health Enterprise (IHE) XCA, or proprietary APIs)?
c. Do you interconnect with other networks? Under what frameworks (for example,
TEFCA, private agreements)?
TD-15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs:
a. How would increased use of bulk FHIR improve use cases and data flow?
Enabling the efficient, standardized transfer of large datasets for entire patient populations
in a single request, rather than individual records. This capability vastly enhances use
cases like population health management, quality reporting, research, and value-based
care analytics, making data collection and aggregation much faster and less burdensome.
b. What are the potential disadvantages of their use?
Potential disadvantages include ensuring the quality and completeness of these large
datasets, managing the security and privacy risks associated with transferring vast
amounts of sensitive information, and addressing the technical complexities of
implementation and robust error handling for such large-scale exchanges. Initial
performance limitations in some EHR implementations also remains a concern.
TD-16. What are the tradeoffs of maintaining point-to-point models vs. shared network
infrastructure?
Maintaining point-to-point data exchange models offers simplicity for a few connections
but quickly becomes complex, costly, and difficult to manage as the number of
connections grows. In contrast, a shared network infrastructure (like TEFCA's network of
networks) provides scalability, standardized data exchange, and centralized governance,
significantly reducing individual integration burdens and fostering broader interoperability
a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participation?
Currently, rules like the 21st Century Cures Act and TEFCA aim to encourage scalable
network participation by mandating open APIs and creating a common framework for

trusted exchange. However, the voluntary nature of full participation in some aspects can
still limit reach.
b. What changes would improve alignment (for example, API unification, reciprocal
access)?
To improve alignment, unifying API standards (e.g., universal FHIR adoption) and promoting
true reciprocal access where data flows freely and consistently in both directions are
crucial. This means moving beyond one-off data pulls to a system where all connected
parties can easily access and exchange information based on common rules and trust.
TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in
ensuring viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough supply and
demand, that results in usage and outcomes?
They should establish policies and funding mechanisms that incentivize participation and
sustain operations for Qualified Health Information Networks (QHINs) and other exchange
entities. This includes defining clear value propositions for sharing, potentially linking
participation to quality programs or reimbursement models. Their role also extends to
setting and enforcing standards (like FHIR and USCDI) that reduce technical barriers and
encourage a balanced supply and demand for data exchange, ultimately driving its
widespread use and positive health outcomes.
5. Compliance
TD-18. Information blocking:
a. Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of practices you
have experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please include both
situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a failure or
unusable response? Examples of information blocking include: charging excessive
fees, changing the length of time a patient has access to records, or refusing to
transfer PHI to a third party.
b. What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS implement to further
discourage healthcare providers from engaging in information blocking practices?
The following could discourage healthcare providers from engaging in information
blocking practices: enhanced surveillance, disclosure of restrictions, transparency
on fees, and clarifying information blocking exceptions.
c. Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition of
information blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA)
that lack information blocking disincentives? These are the healthcare actors

covered under the definition of information blocking: healthcare providers, health IT
developers, and HINs/HIEs.
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
Timeliness, inaccuracy and incorrect information, and website and data issues are
shortcomings for price transparency.
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency? The
workflows that would benefit most from functional price transparency include:
patient care and decision making, healthcare providers workflow, and business
operations.
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers,
including CMS? Being transparent with prices helps patients and providers make the
best decisions regarding healthcare. This will help decrease stress and conflict
amongst these individuals.
d. What would further motivate solution development? If providers and patients start
to see improvements in the process and system, this will be more encouraging. If
value-based care starts to show effectiveness in improving patient outcomes, this
will motivate solution development.
F. Value-Based Care Organizations
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to
use cases and workflows that involve value-based care organizations. While we certainly
want value-based care organizations to answer questions in this section (and in other
sections) from the value-based care provider point of view, we also invite all stakeholders
to provide their viewpoints on the value-based care workflows as appropriate.
1. Digital Health Adoption
VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations
(ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital
health management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with
their patients? What are the current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption
for patients in ACOs?
When ACOs and MSSP programs utilize digital health management and care navigation
products with more success, then they can be reimbursed or given money since this is a
value-based care model. These patients who are receiving care through Medicare and
Medicaid do not have access to certain forms of digital products. Not all of their healthcare
information is under one system, which would be difficult to collect into one.

VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population
health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement, and
patient engagement be better integrated into APM requirements?
AI can be used to help create payment plans for patients who have specific criteria. AI can
be used to gather data to identify high risk patients and how to address specific social
determinants of health. Promoting team-based care by requiring interprofessional
communication could help patients receive quality care.
VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event
notification, data extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement,
access to claims data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device
interoperability, or other patient empowerment tools.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based
care arrangements?
Essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements include: data analytics
and reporting, care coordination tools, patient portals and apps, streamlined
administrative processes, support for alternative payment methods, and population health
management.
VB-4. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value-based
care arrangements?
The four essential types of data needed for successful participation in value-based care
include patient data, clinical quality data, cost and utilization data, and administrative and
contractual data.
2. Compliance and Certification
VB-5. In your experience, how do current certification criteria and standards incorporated
into the ONC Health IT Certification Program support value-based care delivery?
The ONC Health IT Certification Program allows every system that utilizes this program the
ability to share information. The program can accurately capture quality measures to help
ensure healthcare systems are receiving their payments. Patient portals are utilized to
improve patient engagement.
VB-6. What specific health information technology capabilities that could benefit APMs are
not currently addressed by existing certification criteria and standards that should be
included under the ONC Health IT Certification Program?

Areas not addressed by existing certification criteria include: advanced data analytics,
support for complex management workflows, robust integration with social determinants
of health information, and standardized reporting for APM performance.
VB-7. How can technology requirements for APMs, established through CEHRT or other
pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility?
To reduce complexity, the following could be done: streamlined data collection and
reporting, decreased duplicate reporting, and easier compliance. To preserve flexibility, the
following could be done: focus on interoperability, allowing for new technologies and
versions, and support for a diverse technology solutions.
VB-8. How can other HHS policies supplement CEHRT requirements to better optimize the
use of digital health products in APMs? As an example, requirements under the Conditions
of Participation for hospitals (42 CFR 482.24(d)) require hospitals to transmit electronic
patient event notifications to community providers. What barriers are in place preventing
APM participants from receiving the same notifications?
CEHRT should combine with other HHS policies that focus on interoperability and
reduction of information blocking to optimize the use of digital health products. Not having
these has made it difficult for APM participants to receive the same notifications.
VB-9. What technology requirements should be different for APM organizations when
comparing to non-APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and interoperability)?
The following should be required for technology: detailed data collection and reporting,
sophisticated data analytics, seamless data exchange and interoperability, and advanced
EHR functionality.
VB-10. In the Calendar Year (CY) 2024 Physician Fee Schedule final rule (88 FR 79413), CMS
established that CEHRT requirements for Advanced APMs beyond those in the “Base EHR”
definition should be flexible based on what is applicable to the APM that year based on the
area of clinical practice. What certification criteria should CMS identify under this flexibility
for specific Advanced APMs, or for Advanced APMs in general? Are there specific
flexibilities or alternatives to consider for smaller or resource-constrained (such as rural)
providers in meeting CEHRT requirements without compromising quality of care or
availability of performance data?
These are the specific criteria CMS should focus on for flexibility: EHRs focused on clinical
area-specific, supportive of interoperability, relevant to quality measurement, and aligned
with APM objectives. The following are ways to provide support: financial, gradual
integration, group reporting options, and enhanced technical assistance.

3. Technical Standards
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing
value-based care programs?
The following are challenges faced in implementing value-based care programs: patient
data spread across several health systems, financial risks, providers are reluctant to
switch, and social determinants of health.
VB-12. What technology standardization would preserve program-specific flexibility while
promoting innovation in APM technology implementation?
By implementing open standardization for technology, this will allow providers and patients
to provide information to one another and allow continuation of care. All healthcare
providers should be able to access the same information to provide the best care for
patients.
VB-13. What improvements to existing criteria and standards would better support value-
based care capabilities while reducing provider burden?
Ways to improve the provider burden is to make prior authorizations a streamlined process
will help this immensely.
VB-14. How could implementing digital identity credentials improve value-based care
delivery and outcomes?
Digital identity credentials provide patients with easier access to their health information.
This will decrease the amount of requests for information and allow providers to see
information that is useful in a quick manner.
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve access
to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data elements would
be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize its effectiveness?
A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints would consolidate data, which would
include claims and patient information. This would streamline the process of providing
care to patients significantly. More information that should be included in a FHIR system
includes: provider identifiers, guidelines on how information is used, labs, and MARs.