Response to the CMS/ASTP RFI Health Technology Ecosystem
CMS-0042-NC
June 16, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-2025-0050-0031
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244–8013
Regarding CMS-2025-0050-0031, Request for Information (RFI) Health Technology
Ecosystem
To the Director of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS):
The Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL) is pleased to provide this response to
the CMS/ASTP Request for Information: Health Technology Ecosystem. We concentrate on
two main points in our response: 1) TEFCA is a necessary framework that is working in
today’s digital health ecosystem and 2) our innovative technical platform (AIMS) is a
successful example of the scalability of TEFCA.
Over the last decade, TEFCA has fundamentally changed the expectations for how
healthcare and its partners store, manage, and share data. While TEFCA is still a work in
progress, this common agreement has allowed hospitals, payers, public health, and health
IT vendors to build towards a common goal and a recognized set of functional
requirements and data exchange standards.
APHL has observed the challenges and burden of managing data exchange when partners
do not conform to the same standards or data reporting requirements. These barriers
ultimately impact provider/patient access to health information and healthcare quality
metrics like time-to-diagnosis and time-to-treat and the ability for public health to respond
to emerging infectious disease outbreaks. TEFCA combines the lessons learned through
past national interoperability initiatives to provide clear blueprints to health data exchange
partners. Expansion of TEFCA should continue.
It will take time and investment, as well as commitment and leadership from federal
partners, especially ASTP, for TEFCA to reach full maturity. While pilot engagements
between QHIN participants are encouraging, the number of participating hospitals, payers,
and other entities in production on TEFCA must reach a critical mass for the true potential
of this framework to be realized. Further, these partners need a comprehensive library of
Exchange Purposes and sub-exchange purposes so they can implement interoperable data
exchange across many use cases. They also need to be incentivized to continue to develop

APHL Response to RFI CMS-0042-NC
and pilot robust technology solutions that streamline and simplify data exchange – and
ensure that this exchange delivers high-quality, timely, usable data.
The APHL Informatics Messaging Services (AIMS) Platform is an instructive example of an
early TEFCA success founded on innovative technology, domain expertise, and
public/private partnerships. While hospitals are still onboarding to QHINs, AIMS has
already established connections to 70+ state, local, and territorial public health agencies
(PHAs) and currently supports 55 of these PHAs to receive electronic case reporting (eCR)
via the eHealth Exchange QHIN, one of the first examples of public health data in
production through TEFCA. AIMS is processing 2.25 million eCR documents via TEFCA
each month. In July 2024, AIMS began sending anonymized eICR/RR FHIR bundles to CDC
(for PHAs that approve).
Beyond TEFCA, the AIMS Platform securely transports millions of messages daily for use
cases that span the full spectrum of public health data exchange. This data exchange is
critical both for patient care and for national security and emergency preparedness.
Laboratory test results are needed to conduct differential diagnoses, identify specific
conditions, and start and manage treatment, while public health reporting ensures that
state, local, and federal programs have the data needed to safeguard and improve the
public’s health, whether it be from infectious disease, foodborne disease outbreaks,
chronic disease, cancer, bioterrorism or other public health concerns. AIMS routes data for
these and other use cases, including eCR, electronic laboratory report (ELR), syndromic
surveillance, electronic laboratory surveillance messages (ELSM), case notification
messages, cancer reporting, vital records, immunization data, and electronic test order
and result (ETOR). Crucially, through our collaboration
with eHealth Exchange, as TEFCA finalizes sub-
exchange purposes for these use cases, AIMS is
positioned to seamlessly transition these data feeds to
TEFCA for its data exchange partners.
2

APHL Response to RFI CMS-0042-NC
Reduced point-to-point connections
The AIMS hub model has reduced the need for redundant system integrations and multiple
point-to-point connections by serving as the intermediary between data exchange
partners.
ELR with clinical laboratories
Quest manages at least 3 laboratory information management systems (LIMS) across its
facilities. If each LIMS had to connect to each PHA, complete coverage would potentially
require the onboarding, testing and continued maintenance of more than 150 point-to-
point connections, each with its own messaging requirements and format. Quest needed a
streamlined solution to onboard its laboratories to send ELR to PHAs that could be
maintained with limited overhead. Quest Diagnostics partnered with APHL to ELR through
the AIMS Platform to all public health agencies (PHAs). Now, Quest sends a single feed to
AIMS via VPN, where each message is validated and routed to the appropriate PHA within
the connected network using each PHA's preferred transport protocol.
This public/private partnership yielded significant cost-savings for Quest and the cessation
of onerous manual reporting. The project simultaneously improved the quality and
timeliness of the data reported, enabling public health to quickly take action on potential
health threats.
Cross-jurisdictional data exchange
Once onboarded to AIMS, our partners can easily add more use cases and dataflows with
other partners. As individuals move
around the country, to travel or to be
seen by a provider, public health
often needs to share data about
residents of other states. Dozens of
public health agencies use our
InterPartner service to exchange data
with other agencies, while still
InterPartner Connections on AIMS
maintaining a single connection to
AIMS.
3

APHL Response to RFI CMS-0042-NC
Agility in a public health emergency
Partners exchanging data via the AIMS Platform are able to add conditions and use cases
quickly and efficiently, even during a public health response. For example, Quest used its
existing connection with AIMS to become one of the first private laboratories to send
COVID data to State PHAs, CDC, and Health and Human Services (HHS). Adding COVID,
and later mpox, to the Quest ELR feed required relatively little effort on the part of either the
laboratory or the PHAs.
Economy of Scale
AIMS is not just a hub; it performs validation, transformation and translation services.
Centralizing these services reduces the costs for ongoing operations and maintenance for
all partners. Data is standardized by AIMS and thus consumable by the systems and
applications that must use that data. In some cases, the burden to “clean” data is nearly
eliminated, further ensuring that providers and patients can receive their laboratory test
results as soon as they are released. When providers have access to this information
immediately, the time to diagnosis and time to treat is improved.
Many of the services and solutions that AIMS provides address critical needs in public
health data exchange that agencies have struggled to implement locally. AIMS provides the
centralized solution, the technology, and the
technical assistance to implement and
maintain it, allowing public health agencies
to achieve milestones that have long been
on their roadmap. For example, public
health laboratories have long recognized the
efficiencies of ETOR, including cost and
time-savings, reduced data entry, higher
quality data, faster turnaround times, and
improved forecasting, but have had limited
success implementing ETOR solutions. It is
technologically challenging and cost-
prohibitive to build their own solution and
then onboard each hospital one by one with
limited resources. Offering a trusted
intermediary, Detor, on AIMS has accelerated
the adoption of ETOR with public health
4

APHL Response to RFI CMS-0042-NC
starting with newborn screening results, leading to better outcomes for the youngest
patients in the healthcare system. Detor’s validation, translation, and transformation
services are centrally hosted, and we work with the hospital and the laboratory during the
onboarding process, making the implementation faster and easier for all parties. And once
onboarded, hospitals can share ETOR with other laboratories that are part of the Detor
program. We now have a queue of hospitals and laboratories eager to onboard to Detor.
Public health domain expertise
APHL understands public health practice, standards, and
“AIMS is not just
requirements. Our subject matter experts have the specialized
technology but
also a unique knowledge to implement solutions that meet the particular
arrangement of demands of public health data exchange. Moreover, we have
data partners.“ established a relationship of trust with the entire public health
community at the local, state, territorial, and federal level, and
increasingly with private industry partners as well. By serving as a public health
intermediary, the AIMS Platform eliminates the need for one-off solutions for public health
data exchange, reduces redundant systems integrations and centralizes standardization
and validation services. Through our partnership with eHealth Exchange, the AIMS Platform
will be able to connect to all QHINs and will be able to provide these services to any
member of the TEFCA network. AIMS takes the burden of interoperable data exchange off
public health and healthcare practitioners and lets them focus on what’s important, while
also ensuring that decision-makers have access to better, more complete higher-quality
data. The AIMS Platform is a cornerstone of the nation’s modernized health IT
infrastructure, and with TEFCA, can bring crucial data quickly to where they are necessary.
Future Services
AIMS has plans to develop additional shared services that will benefit the entire digital
health ecosystem, improve public health outcomes, and allow healthcare to focus on
patient care rather than reporting requirements. The CDC DIBBS team is working with AIMS
now to launch its eCR Refiner tool as a centralized service on the AIMS Platform to “refine”
eCR messages and surface the relevant data before they are received by public health. In
the future, AIMS could utilize the eCR model for ELR, routing lab results to the eligible PHA
from all connected healthcare providers. AIMS has multiple pilot PHLs and HCOs in
production with ETOR and is positioned to scale this service nationally. AIMS is also
building its FHIR capabilities and has partnered with Deloitte and the Florida Department
of Health to conduct a pilot project to run a FHIR query to retrieve missing patient
5

APHL Response to RFI CMS-0042-NC
demographic data from an EHR. We have the infrastructure to scale these solutions
simultaneously via TEFCA and separately from TEFCA, depending on the readiness of
participants. In addition, AIMS possesses the functionality to perform robust validation on
incoming data, and this technology could eventually be adapted to support CMS
performance-based metrics around data quality and usability.
Conclusion
Thank you again for the opportunity to comment on CMS-0042-NC, Request for
Information, Health Technology Ecosystem. We strongly encourage CMS and ASTP to
continuing the visionary work initiated under TEFCA to build an integrated health IT
ecosystem and to continue to engage public health leadership at all levels in this planning.
Furthermore, we encourage CMS and ASTP to consider that AIMS is a critical piece of the
digital health ecosystem, a trusted intermediary with existing relationships with PHAs and
healthcare and proven success as a TEFCA partner. Our subject matter experts understand
public health standards and reporting requirements on a deep level, and we provide
technical assistance and centralized services to senders and receivers. This model has
consistently achieved economy of scale and an efficient use of resources. Let AIMS focus
on what we do best: public health.
Should you have any questions about APHL’s response, please contact Melanie Kourbage,
Lead Specialist, APHL Informatics, at melanie.kourbage@aphl.org.
Sincerely,
Scott Becker
Chief Executive Officer
Association of Public Health Laboratories
Jay Nakashima
Jay Nakashima
eHealth Exchange President
6