June 16, 2025 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services Attention: CMS-0042-NC P.O. Box 8013 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244-1850 Dear Sir or Madam, We are the members of the informal Trebuchet subgroup on Clinical Documentation Supporting Orders (CDSO). We appreciate the opportunity to respond to the CMS and ONC/ASTP RFI on Health Technology ecosystem, file code CMS-0042-NC. The CDSO Trebuchet subgroup is comprised of: •Parachute Health, •Mesh Health Solutions, •Combs-Dyer Consulting, •Drummond Group, •Farseen Advisors, •Onyx Technology, •Tomorrow Health and •others. We wish to comment on the state of data interoperability and the broader health technology infrastructure as it relates to payers’ dual role of: 1)preventing improper payments, including fraud and abuse, and 2) reducing providers’ administrative burden Our comments include a list recommended actions for CMS and ONC/ASTP to consider taking that could help payers meet – and carefully balance -- these two goals. Melanie Combs-Dyer Combs-Dyer Consulting E-mail: melanie@CombsDyerConsulting.com Website: CombsDyerConsulting.com 
2Clinical Documentation Supporting Orders (CDSO) Trebuchet Subgroup Comments in Response to CMS and ONC/ASTP’s RFI on Health Technology Ecosystem Background. The process used today by DME1 suppliers to receive medical record documentation from the ordering clinician is quite burdensome and often inadequate. The process involves web portals, PDF documents, and fax machines. This causes much of the medical documentation supporting a DME claim to be lacking in the eyes of the payer and often leads to claim denials and appeals. General. The RFI asks which elements of today's health technology ecosystem are working, which are not working, and which are impeding progress. •Working. One element of today’s ecosystem that holds great promise is the burden reduction APIs required under CMS final rule 0057. The CRD2, DTR3 and PAS4 APIs will go a great way to helping reduce provider burden. The Medicare fee for service CRD/DTR/PAS APIs went into effect in December 2020. Kudos to Medicare FFS for leading the way! However, the full potential of these APIs cannot be fully recognized without adding some requirements to the CEHRT5 vendors. •Not Working. Four areas of today’s health technology ecosystem are not working well: 1.Provider Adoption of CRD/DTR is too low. No providers have submitted a CRD, DTR, or PAS transaction to Medicare FFS (the first payer ready to receive them.) This lack of provider adoption is driven by the absence of requirements on the EHR vendors to provide CRD, DTR, and PAS APIs, within the EHR. This workgroup believes that CEHRT must support the CRD/DTR/PAS standards in addition to any other proprietary solutions they wish to establish. ONC/ASTP should consider adding the following to the certification requirement to the 1 DME = Durable Medical Equipment 2 CRD = Coverage Requirements Discovery, the APIs that allows a provider to discover whether an item or service requires prior authorization by the patient’s payer. 3 DTR = Documentation Templates and Rules, the APIs that allow a payer to show the needed elements that must be documented in the medical record. 4 PAS = Prior Authorization Support, the APIs that allow a provider to submit and the payer to receive an unsolicited Prior Auth request. 5 CEHRT = Certified EHR Technology
3CEHRT6 program: By 1/1/2027, the EHR must offer support for CDS-hooks to enable integration with at least CRD, DTR & PAS APIs, with no special effort by clinicians.” 2.Too few templates are available. a. To date, the Medicare FFS program has only added 2 templates to their DTR7 repository: •oxygen (which does NOT require prior authorization), and •blephoraplasty (which DOES require prior authorization). This workgroup appreciates that Medicare FFS is: 1) releasing their DTR templates as they become available, and 2) creating templates not only for items/services that require prior authorization but also for items/services where documentation requirements exist even in the absence of prior authorization. Medicare FFS should continue creating many more templates. b.Too few Medicaid and Medicare Advantage templates exist. CMS should encourage all regulated health plans to: 1) not wait until 1/1/27 to make their templates available but rather release them incrementally as Medicare FFS is doing, and 2) create templates not only for items/services that require prior authorization but also for items/services where documentation requirements exist even in the absence of prior authorization, just as Medicare FFS is doing. 3.CMS’ lack of enforcement transparency. CMS has not yet been transparent about how they plan to enforce the 0057 requirements on MA plans and Medicaid plans. CMS could encourage adoption by revealing these plans. 4.Absence of urgency in the CMS’ Promoting Interoperability program needed to drive transformational change in health data exchange. Virtually all Promoting Interoperability requirements are quality focused, not improper payment focused. Today, there is only a single promoting interoperability requirement related to documentation submission for improper payment purposes. This requirement rewards providers who attest to have submitting one prior authorization request in FHIR format per year. CMS should require all eligible physicians who order items and services to have CRD/DTR capabilities in their EHR by 2026 and use it for every item/service they order where a template exists at the relevant payer. 7 DTR = Documentation Templates and Rules API (also known as the Electronic Clinical Template API, or ECTA)
4•Impeding Progress. One area of today’s health technology ecosystem that is impeding rapid progress is the insufficiency of the CDex FHIR IG and interoperability procedures for an ordering clinician to use when sending Clinical Documentation Supporting an Order (CDSO) to a supplying/rendering provider such as a DME supplier, imaging facility, home health agency, lab, etc. We recently presented to the HL7 Clinical Orders, Workflow (COW) work group the concept of a CDSO implementation guide (IG). The COW work group reminded us that funding would be needed to create such a an implementation guide. Medicare FFS funded the creation of the initial CRD and DTR IGs; Medicare FFS should also fund the creation of a CDSO IG. CMS and ONC/ASTP are seeking input for possible consideration in future rulemaking on policies to ease health data exchange. Once the CDSO IG has been finalized: ONC/ASTP could issue: CMS could issue: an NPRM8 and final rule to add a condition to the CEHRT certification criteria: To become certified, the EHR must offer all ordering clinicians the ability to store and transmit a CDSO FHIR-bundle to the rendering provider without special effort.an update to the Promoting Interoperability rules that for eligible physicians to qualify for the incentive, they must submit a CDSO transaction to the rendering provider for each order/referral the send for a Medicare FFS beneficiary. These changes will enable the rendering providers to receive the structured documentation needed to support their claims for items/services delivered to patients as directed by the ordering clinician. This will also allow the rendering provider to respond to medical documentation requests from the patient’s payer. To spur immediate action on this front, we recommend that CMS and ONC/ASTP announce at the July Connectathon that they: •support the development of the CDSO IG, effective immediately •will monitor the progress of the CDSO IG and: •intend to add “comply with the CDSO IG with no special effort” to the CEHRT criteria in 2027. oAdd as part of the enforcement program that the CEHRT certification body shall: ▪establish a mechanism to receive complaints from Medicare- enrolled providers or Medicare FFS review contractors who allege that a CEHRT is operating in violation of the “allow CDSO without special effort” requirement, ▪establish a Targeted Review and Educate program for EHR vendors with more than 5 complaints/year, and 8 NPRM = Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
5▪remove the certification of any EHR vendors found to be out of compliance with the CRD/DTR and CDSO certification requirements. •add “submit a CDSO transaction to the rendering provider for each order/referral for a Medicare FFS beneficiary” to the Promoting Interoperability program. oAdd as part of the enforcement program that the Promoting Interoperability program shall: ▪establish a mechanism to receive complaints from Medicare- enrolled providers or Medicare FFS review contractors who wish to allege that an ordering clinician is operating in violation of the “submit a CDSO to the rendering provider” requirement, and ▪establish a Targeted Review and Educate program for ordering clinicians with more than 5 complaints/year. ▪If, after three rounds of Targeted Review and Educate, an ordering clinciain fails to send a CDSO to the supplying/rendering provider, direct the Centers for Program Integrity to approve for RAC extrapolated postpayment review an ordering clinician’s E&M visit in which an item/service is ordered but no CDSO is transmitted to the rendering provider. Define CDSO …. It is the completed template. Medicare FFS currently has 2…. We want them to get more…. We want Medicaid and other payers need many more templates. (currently Medicaid makes only paper/pdf “forms” available. We recommend CMS to encourage all regulated plans to begin making these DTR templates available prior to 1/1/27. PC-10.e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could improve data access and integration? Response: CMS lists on its website https://www.cms.gov/data-research/computer-data- systems/emdi/post-acute-fhir-order-and-referrals a draft IG called called Post-Acute Orders on FHIR ( https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/dme-orders/). CMS should consider: 1. funding the further development of this IG to focus primarily on CDSO FHIR-bundles and how they can move from ordering clinician to DME supplier and on to the requesting payer for review (and renaming this IG to become the CDSO IG) 2.taking the IG for testing at the HL7 September 2025 Connectathon in Pittsburgh, 
63.beginning the HL7 balloting process shortly after the HL7 virtual Connectathon in January, 2026 , 4.reference the final balloted CDSO IG in HHS rulemaking before 1/1/2027, and 5.updating the Promoting Interoperability rules that for eligible physicians to qualify fo rhte inentive payment , they must submit a CDSO transaction to the rendering provider for every order/referral they send for a Medicare FFS beneficiary. Initially, the CDSO IG should stay focused on creating a communication channel between ordering clinicians and DME suppliers. In the future, the IG could be modified to allow the patient to have access to their CDSO. In fact, once the patient has the order and the CDSO (required by the patient’s payer to pay for the item/service), a true health care shopping experience will become available to patients. In the future, Medicare FFS should modify this this standard to allow the patient to receive a copy of the order and the CDSO. This would arm the patient with the information they need to “shop the item/service.” PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent deployment or effective utilization of the most useful and innovative apps for physician workflows…? How can these obstacles be mitigated? The primary obstacle today preventing apps in physician workflows if the difficulty providers have integrating and deploying apps. Today’s process is very manual and time consuming. Many health technology vendors are waiting for federal health agencies to require vendors to transform their current non-FHIR API integrations into FHIR API integrations. 