 June 16, 2025 Public Commen t on: Reques t for Informa tion; Health Technology Ecosystem File Code: CMS -0042-NC RIN: 0938-A V68 Submit ted by: Redox, Inc. - https://r edoxengine.c om/ Introduction Redox appr eciates the opportunity to respond to CMS ’s Reques t for Informa tion on the Health Technology Ecosystem. As a compan y solely focused on healthc are interoper ability , Redox provides a secur e, scalable platform that enables real-time, API-based data exchang e across the healthc are landsc ape. Today, we support nearly 10,000 healthc are organizations and over 12,000 activ e integrations, connecting systems across 100+ EHR vendor s and a broad range of digit al health applic ations. Our infrastructur e is designed to reduce integration burden, normaliz e data across dispar ate sour ces, and acceler ate access to clinic al and adminis trative data—c ore priorities highligh ted in this RFI. With HITRUS T and SOC 2 Type II certific ations, Redox mee ts the highes t security and compliance standar ds. We welcome the opportunity to shar e recommenda tions for advancing a more open, interoper able, and patient-cen tered ecosystem that can support emer ging use cases, impr ove care coordina tion, and drive better outcomes system-wide. Public Commen ts B. Patien ts and Caregivers, 2. Data Access and Integration, PC-10 How is the Trusted Exchang e Frame work and Common Agreemen tTM (TEF CATM ) currently helping to advance patient access to health informa tion in the real world? a. Please provide specific examples. 1 
 TEFCA is a very nascen t effort, but is working to build upon the best practices learned from networks such as eHealthEx chang e, CareQuality and Common well. By bringing in new use cases and stakeholder s, TEFCA is pushing indus try to have the ability to shar e data, in a trustworth y, yet controlled way in one place, ensur e data silos do not exist, and by providing a network to all stakeholder s involved in the patient journe y, including mos t import antly the patient themselv es. Having one method to shar e and exchang e this common data is a cost effectiv e way to ensur e that the patient data flows to wher e it needs to go and ensur es that the patient receiv es the right care at the right time. Although the existing networks have been very success ful, they have stalled at exchanging data via documen ts between clinicians. Import ant data exchang es happen for a variety of purposes, with a number of stakeholder s, that requir e the exact same patient data to be exchang ed, as defined in USCDI and US Core. Until recen tly, in these networks, there has been little forward momen tum to move into impr oving exchang es and expand to new stakeholder s including Patients, Payers, Resear cher s and Public Health. Man y of these areas of new exchang e, such as IAS, Oper ations Purpose of Use, and FHIR exchang es, need further trials to determine the best appr oach. Data quality is an issue: The data shar ed today via existing networks is inconsis tent and often incomple te. Ther e needs to be a way to evalua te the data quality , and data comple teness that is being produced by holder s of clinic al data. And this data quality and comple teness needs transpar ency , so consumer s of the data can compar e and choose the right network solution to mee t their needs. Documen t exchang e is cumber some: The majority of data exchang es today happen via documen ts, making the mos t relevant and import ant data hard to determine. Moving to a FHIR based exchang e ensur es that Apps and solutions can target receiving just the data needed for the patient care and build adap table flows that mee t the needs of every stakeholder in the patient's care. b. Wha t chang es would you suggest? 2 
 1. Focus on expanding to new use cases outside of clinician to clinic al treatmen t purpose of use, to truly enable all the patients data, throughout their healthc are journe y to be shar ed to the right stakeholder s and available, near real time to the patient. This includes paymen t, and oper ations data. Acceler ating the IAS use case with consen ts, to allow for patients to shar e all data they want to including clinic al and paymen t, with App vendor s will allow for an app eco system to evolve on help patients have fully actionable data such as cost, location, copays, voucher s, discounts, prior authoriz ations etc that can help them under stand which treatmen t options and services are best suited to their circums tance. 2. Acceler ate sharing of data via FHIR over a trusted exchang e and help acceler ate the necessar y componen ts to ensur e that this can scale, such as FAST security IG and mak e the location of the data sear chable and discoverable via a Nationwide endpoin t directory. 3. Ensur e claims and coverage data available via FHIR APIs near real time, as it enables inno vation, and help s the patient mak e the right decision for their health circums tance. 4. Wher e appr opria te allow for sharing of data in bulk via the networks to ensur e data liquidity for B2B processes that requir e large data sets, such as those needed for popula tion health and quality metrics. c. Wha t use cases could have a signific ant impact if implemen ted through TEFCA? Individual Access Services would be import ant as this flow enables the patient to participa te in a network that shar es their data. Patients can become a key sour ce of truth to valida te items such as which medic ations are currently activ e, ensuring that they are a full participan t in the data exchang es. Oper ation purpose of use becoming manda tory would allow for Payers to be full participan ts in TEFCA. Payers provide informa tion that is key to ensuring that the care itself is cost effectiv e and is providing quality outcomes. 3 
 d. Wha t standar ds are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access and existing exchang e purposes? Bulk FHIR APIs and CDS Hook s are currently working well to advance access and existing exchang e purposes. Performan t Bulk FHIR APIs would unlock man y flows that are not possible to scale today and they are available across man y EHR solutions. Bulk on FHIR is necessar y for man y B2B flows, such as Provider to Payer exchang e, however, today these at large EHR vendor s are not provided in a performan t manner for the necessar y volume of data. And access to test sandbo xes is not always easy for developer s to obtain. Man y EHR vendor s also institut e Bulk FHIR as back end processes have a low priority and run at low transaction times. This means queries can take up to days to run and man y have not implemen ted the $export function to enable the end to end process. Additionally , mos t have not implemen ted $import to mak e the data exchang e seamless. Man y EHRs requir e the creation of a Patient Group to iden tify the cohort to run, but do not provide an easy mechanism via FHIR to create that Group as seen in listings on Lantern. Vendor s should provide benchmark data on their process times for exporting and importing bulk data via FHIR, this will ensur e that there is transpar ency on limit ations of EHR solutions and expose wher e there may be a need for augmen ting with alterna tives such as cloud enabled data manag emen t. EHR vendor s should allow for creation of groups via FHIR, and implemen t at a minimum $export oper ation. CDS Hook s is already unlocking process flows such as real time Prior Authoriz ations within the EHR, without requiring oner ous and expensiv e implemen tations, or vendor lock-in to EHR specific platforms. CDS hook s need to be expanded to acceler ate common processes such as scheduling and adop tion of necessar y hook s requir ed in the DaVinic flow such as order-select. e. Wha t standar ds are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could impr ove data access and integration? 4 
 FAST Security IG and FHIR Subscrip tions: FAST Security IG (UDAP), and FHIR Subscrip tions would unlock man y data flows that are not available today without oner ous data integration efforts. FAST Security IG is requir ed to enable sharing of data via FHIR in a scalable way across a trusted network. Without this componen t, access to each endpoin t will requir e a time consuming and costly manual registration process. FHIR Subscrip tions could allow for real time event listening , without requiring the expensiv e, outdated and time consuming infrastructur e requir ed today to integrate into B2B process flows through HL7 V2. f. Are there redundan t standar ds, protocols, or channels that should be consolida ted? Man y of the existing standar ds that requir e oner ous and manual efforts. For instance to set up a HL7 V2 exchang e a VPN is requir ed. This is a manual and laborious process, requiring multiple back and forths to ensur e data is flowing correctly . Moving to FHIR subscrip tions, great write back via FHIR and CDS Hook s would enable these flows to happen via one standar d. g. Are there adequa te alterna tives outside of TEFCA for achie ving widespr ead patient access to their health informa tion? Today there are alterna tives to TEFCA for patient access, but these are oner ous, requiring a patient to individually login to multiple patient chart port als, requiring them to be able to locate their provider s, get a login account from that provider , not always an easy process, remember and main tain multiple accounts and pass words, and requiring a shar e all or none appr oach. As a result patients are not able to access and manag e their healthc are data. Even when available without tremendous effort. This has led to the term 'port alitis' to describe this phenomena. Today while some networks such as CommonW ell have demons trated success ful pilots to enable patients to get their data via IAS, the purpose of use, expanding this to true nationwide data exchang e, is hamper ed by the lack of a single accessible login being available across all the major EHR vendor s. 5 
 Outside of TEFCA, there is no alterna tive that today that could easily and rapidly scale nationwide to provide access to all patients data, and not be specific to one network. TEFCA, not only is nationwide, is an open trusted frame work and covers all patients that are covered via the 3 nationwide networks today. TEFCA is further along in envisioning and planning support for the componen ts needed to enable patients to participa te in Networks, including manda ting use of UDAP. TEFCA today is driving other networks to envision how to oper ationaliz e other use cases beyond the Clinician to clinician treatmen t workflo w. Without this driver we may see the indus try take a step back. C. Providers, 2. Data Exchange, PR-5 Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you already support or utiliz e in your provider organization's systems, directly or through an intermediar y? For each, describe the transaction model, use case, whe ther you use individual queries or bulk transactions, and any constraints: a. Patient Access API: We support this in provider organizations for our clien ts. The utiliz ation would be individual queries related to a single patient per session. Man y applic ations would like for data to be main tained over time which involves managing a refresh token, which can be an inconsis tent and frustrating experience for a patient when it expires - if a refresh token is even available. Some EHR vendor s use the desir e to have a refresh token to submit applic ations to review an appr oval process that is out of step with regula tions. Our experience is that man y patient facing apps requir e manual steps to activ ate at a given health system. For some EHR vendor s, under certain use cases, this can be downloaded, but not in all cases. When automa tic download and configur ation is not an option, the distribution of the applic ation is a signific ant barrier to use and adop tion. b. Standar dized API for Patient and Popula tion Services: We do not utiliz e or support BulkFHIR but it is on our roadmap. 6 
 We often find that current EHR implemen tations do not mak e Bulk FHIR an attractiv e option for use cases that we’ve seen from our clien ts: consuming large patient popula tions for registries and main taining those data sets over time. Issues include: ● Inappr opria te (non-s ystem to system) authen tication protocols. ● Vague warning about “perf ormance problems” for the popula tion transfers these APIs are intended to support. ● Inconsis tent support for accur ate popula tion selection. ● Manual creation and curation of patient popula tions that are desir ed / relevant. We work around these limit ations using other means to access much of the bene fits of popula tion level exchang es via means other than bulk FHIR . c. Provider Directory API: We do not use provider directory API services today, but could support consump tion of these APIs for our clien ts. d. Provider Access API: We consume Provider Access APIs for our clien ts. Our use cases range from SMAR T on FHIR applic ations to bulk data transfer. We find that access to these APIs has signific ant oper ational overhead and variance by EHR vendor . In all cases, manual setup at the health system is requir ed in order for Provider Access APIs to be functional, effectiv ely and unnecessarily gating these applic ations in an IT queue or technic al limit ations of a small clinic office’s staff. These limit ations impose a serious distribution challeng e on any vendor and long dela ys or a signific ant burden to activ ate the applic ation at small and medium sized treatmen t locations. Variance in authen tication, specific ally refresh token beha vior can be a serious technic al burden to manag e for a vendor . Finally , some EHRs impose rate limits or other restrictions that are simply not viable for an applic ation at scale, further complic ating technic al and oper ational implemen tation and adop tion of these solutions. e. Payer-to-Payer API: We do not use Payer-to-Payer API services today, but could support consump tion of these APIs for our clien ts. f. Prior Authoriz ation API: We support Da Vinci flows in production today. This includes Da Vinci flows for the payer, but mapped to underlying X12 messag e types for the health system. 7 
 Because our support does not requir e EHR support for Da Vinci flows or FHIR, and only requir es our payer customer to integrate with our platform using the prior authoriz ation APIs we do not have experience with the oper ational burdens associa ted with integrating via the Da Vinci flows at health systems. g. Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based access filtering for popula tion-specific queries? We can support Group-ID based filtering for our clien ts if necessar y. We’ve never seen an EHR system support this that was well matched to clien t needs and have other appr oaches to accomplish Group ID (or other popula tion filter criteria) filtering to facilit ate popula tion level data exchang e. h. SMAR T on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and standalone app access? Wha t does the process for applic ation deplo ymen t entail? We support both EHR launched and standalone SMAR T on FHIR applic ation access for our clien ts. For our clien ts we issue an appr opria te authen tication creden tial and provide a single endpoin t they interact with - we will handle the SMAR T on FHIR handshak e with the EHR on their behalf . Typically a single registration of their applic ation with us is sufficien t. The applic ation deplo ymen t process varies at each health system. Some friction we and our clien ts encounter: ● EHRs may have a review and appr oval process per applic ation. ● Some EHRs requir e beta periods at each health system deplo yed. ● Manual configur ation is always requir ed to deplo y except in certain stand-alone patient facing applic ation use cases. i. CDS Hook s (for clinic al decision support integrations): We have just related support for CDS Hook s, to support prior authoriz ation and best practice suggestions in clinic al workflo ws for our clien ts. So far, our experience is that EHR level support for CDS hook s is limit ed, but a number of major EHR vendor s have signaled their intention to support. We have clien ts contracted for this functionality , but it is not yet live in production. E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Network s, 3. Technic al Standards and Certific ation, TD-4 8 
 How can CMS better encourage use of open, standar ds-based, publicly available APIs over proprie tary APIs? Encouraging the widespr ead adop tion of open, standar ds-based, publicly available APIs over proprie tary solutions is fundamen tal to achie ving true healthc are interoper ability . At Redox, our platform is purpose-built to navigate the comple xities of healthc are data exchang e, abstracting away proprie tary variations to enable seamless, standar ds-based communic ation. We recogniz e the challeng es and opportunities in this space and offer the following recommenda tions to CMS: 1. Broaden Incen tives for Open API Adop tion: CMS should signific antly increase the scope of incen tives to drive broader participa tion in programs that manda te open, standar ds-based APIs. Curr ent incen tives, while a good start, often don't fully account for the investmen t requir ed to transition from legacy, proprie tary systems. Expanded incen tives should: ● Reward compr ehensiv e API implemen tation: Go beyond basic compliance. Incen tivize systems that not only expose data via open APIs but also consume and act on data receiv ed through these channels, demons trating a true commitmen t to bi-dir ectional interoper ability . ● Support diverse system types: Extend incen tives beyond EHRs to include payers, labs, pharmacies, public health agencies, and other critic al healthc are entities. The network effect of interoper ability only truly materializ es when all key players participa te. ● Offer tiered incen tives for advanced capabilities: Recogniz e and reward systems that implemen t more comple x and valuable API use cases, such as those supporting write-back capabilities, bulk data exchang e, or real-time event notific ations, which are crucial for dynamic workflo ws. 2. Addr ess Oper ational Burden of Applic ation Distribution: The current environmen t of "health system by health system" implemen tation and certific ation creates immense oper ational friction. CMS can mitig ate this by: ● Standar dizing Trust Frame works and Certific ation: Beyond technic al standar ds, CMS should foster a national "trus t community" for health applic ations. This means moving beyond individual EHR vendor certific ation programs or proprie tary "gates" to a more unified model for applic ation vetting and onboar ding. Redox currently manag es connections to over 90 EHRs and thousands of organizations, navigating these 9 
 fragmen ted processes daily . A standar dized, feder ally-back ed trust frame work would drastically reduce this burden. ● Preventing Impr actic al Non-Functional Limit ations: CMS mus t establish guidelines to prevent health systems or EHR vendor s from imposing arbitr ary or impr actic al non- functional limit ations on open APIs (e.g., excessiv ely low global API calls per minut e per applic ation). Such limit ations stifle inno vation and prevent real-time, data-intensiv e applic ations from functioning effectiv ely. Clear performance expect ations for manda ted APIs are critic al. ● Leverage Intermediaries for Scale: Ackno wledg e and encourage the role of interoper ability platforms like Redox. We abstract away the comple xities of dispar ate EHR versions, data forma ts (HL7v2, FHIR, X12, etc.), and connectivity methods. By normalizing data into a consis tent, standar ds-based forma t (including FHIR), Redox allows applic ations to connect once and reach a vast network, drama tically reducing the "health system by health system" burden for developer s. This acceler ates go-to-mark et for new applic ations and reduces oper ational overhead for both developer s and health systems. 3. Expand the Support ed API Set for Full User Experiences: Curr ent API manda tes are a strong founda tion, but a truly transforma tive ecosystem requir es a broader set of APIs that enable compr ehensiv e user experiences. CMS should: ● Prioritiz e Clinic ally and Oper ationally Relevant APIs: Expand the manda ted API set beyond patient access to include APIs critic al for clinic al workflo ws (e.g., discr ete lab orders, medic ation reconcilia tion, patient intake forms, care plan upda tes, real-time alerts) and oper ational efficiencies (e.g., scheduling , referral manag emen t, prior authoriz ation decision support). This will enable applic ations to drive more comple te and impactful user experiences. ● Embr ace Bi-dir ectional Exchang e: While read access is import ant, the true power of APIs lies in bi-dir ectional data exchang e. CMS should increasingly manda te write-back capabilities wher e appr opria te, enabling applic ations to contribut e data back to the system of record, thus closing critic al workflo w loop s. ● Foster API Design for Workflo w Integration: Encourage API designs that align with clinic al and adminis trative workflo ws, rather than simply exposing static data. This means promoting APIs that support events, subscrip tions, and bulk data transfer wher e relevant, moving beyond simple GET reques ts to enable dynamic, responsiv e applic ations. 10 
 Redox is uniquely positioned to support CMS in these endea vors. Our platform provides a robus t, secur e, and scalable founda tion for organizations to connect to and leverage open, standar ds-based APIs, including FHIR . We transla te and normaliz e data across dispar ate systems, provide advanced security and monit oring , and offer developer -friendly tools, effectiv ely becoming the "interoper ability layer" that acceler ates the adop tion of these critic al standar ds across the healthc are landsc ape. Our commitmen t to secur e, seamless data exchang e aligns perfectly with CMS's vision for a more interconnect ed healthc are futur e. E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Network s, 3. Technic al Standards and Certific ation, TD-9 Regarding certific ation of health IT: a. Wha t are the bene fits of redefining certific ation to prioritiz e API-enabled capabilities over softw are functionality? Ther e are three primar y bene fits: 1. Agentic AI via MCP is built on top of APIs. By prioritizing API capabilities you are also prioritizing Agentic AI capabilities. 2. By prioritizing API enabled capabilities, you mus t wrestle with certif ying workflo ws via APIs which could signific antly increase the value of API consuming applic ations. 3. You separ ate the UI from the underlying data stores and business roles, which could open the door to more experimen tation in the user experience and open up more compe tition for the user s instead of them being locked into the EHR. Effectiv ely this could split EHRs into a back end API and a front end wher e man y more groups could compe te with the frontend without requiring enterprise level investmen t in the product developmen t and deplo ymen t before getting into user hands. b. Wha t would be the drawback s? Existing regula tion exposes a signific ant portion of the patient chart via open, standar ds based APIs. Ther efore, the mos t likely direction for increased API enabled capabilities would be prioritizing RESTful FHIR APIs for writeback. But FHIR is a standar d of concep tual data models, and today softw are is used to drive workflo w via spurts of data flow corresponding to comple x and opaque business rules, often driven by a combina tion of provider needs, institutional interpr etation of compliance requir emen ts, and overly byzantine payer, including CMS, reimbur semen t requir emen ts. 11 
 Simply prioritizing FHIR APIs without addr essing the reality that mos t EHRs today drive workflo ws and the forces that shape those workflo ws are broken will at best result in poor adop tion and at worse create signific ant oper ational friction at provider s. E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Network s, 3. Technic al Standards and Certific ation, TD-10 For EHR and other developer s subject to the ONC Health IT Certific ation Program, wha t further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implemen t the 21st Century Cures Act's API condition of certific ation (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv)) that requir es a developer's APIs to allow health informa tion to be accessed, exchang ed, and used without special effort, including providing access to all data elemen ts of a patient's electr onic health record to the extent permissible under applic able privacy laws? Addr essing the oper ational burdens around distribution and deplo ymen t of applic ations is critic al to fully realiz e the "without special effort" manda te of the 21st Century Cures Act's API condition of certific ation. While signific ant progress has been made with standar dized APIs (e.g., FHIR) and SMAR T App Launch, the practic al realities of integrating with diverse EHR environmen ts continue to pose consider able friction for developer s and, by extension, limit the adop tion of inno vative health applic ations. To further implemen t the "without special effort" requir emen t, ASTP/ONC should consider the following steps: 1. Standar dized, Centralized Applic ation Registration and Configur ation: ○ Manda te Univ ersal App Store/Ca talog: ONC should manda te the developmen t and adop tion of a national, standar dized "App Store" or catalog for certified health IT applic ations. This platform would serve as a centralized registry wher e developer s can list their applic ations, specif y their data access requir emen ts (FHIR scopes), and provide necessar y metadata for deplo ymen t. ○ Automa ted Site-Specific Registration: The "App Store" should facilit ate automa ted, programma tic registration of applic ations with individual EHR instances. This means moving beyond manual processes wher e each healthc are organization (HCO) or EHR instance requir es a separ ate, often unique, registration and appr oval workflo w. A standar dized API for applic ation registration and manag emen t (akin to OAuth 2.0 dynamic clien t registration) should be developed and enforced, allowing developer s to register their apps 12 
 once and deplo y them across multiple EHR instances with minimal manual intervention. ○ Pre-neg otiated Scopes and Authoriz ation Profiles: For common use cases, ONC should define and encourage standar dized sets of FHIR scopes and authoriz ation profiles. This would streamline the appr oval process by providing EHRs with clear , pre-de fined security postures for widely adop ted applic ation types, reducing the need for site-specific security reviews for each applic ation. ○ Centralized Creden tial Manag emen t: Explor e models for more centralized or feder ated creden tial manag emen t for applic ations, reducing the burden on individual developer s to manag e unique clien t IDs and secrets for every EHR instance they integrate with. This could involve trust frame works or a distribut ed ledg er technology to attest to applic ation iden tity and security posture. 2. Enforcemen t of Realis tic and Consis tent API Rate Limits: ○ Minimum Baseline Rate Limits: ONC should establish and enforce minimum baseline API rate limits as part of the certific ation criteria. These minimums mus t be substantially higher than current common practice, which often sees unaccep tably low limits (e.g., 500 reques ts per hour per applic ation or per tenan t). The current limits stifle inno vation and mak e popula tion-le vel data access, resear ch, and advanced analy tics practic ally impossible. ○ Tiered and Negotiable Rate Limits: While setting minimums, the regula tion should also encourage EHR vendor s to implemen t tiered rate limits, allowing developer s to negotiate higher limits based on legitima te use cases and data volume needs. The process for reques ting and appr oving these increases should be transpar ent, standar dized, and timely , with clear criteria for appr oval. ○ Real-Time Rate Limit Monit oring and Feedback: EHRs should be requir ed to provide developer s with real-time feedback on their API usag e and remaining rate limits via standar dized HTTP header s or dedic ated API endpoin ts. This allows applic ations to dynamic ally adjus t their reques t patterns and avoid hitting limits, impr oving applic ation resilience and data flow. ○ Penalties for Undue Restrictions: Implemen t clear penalties for EHR vendor s who impose unreasonable or discrimina tory rate limits that impede interoper ability or constitut e informa tion blocking. The current lack of a strong enforcemen t mechanism for such limit ations allows EHRs to control the "pipes" in a way that hinder s inno vation. 3. Manda tory and Standar dized Refresh Token Lifecycles: ○ Guar anteed Long-Liv ed Refresh Tokens: The certific ation program mus t manda te that EHRs issue refresh tokens with a minimum, substantial validity period (e.g., 1 13 
 year or more) for confiden tial clien t applic ations. The current variability , including instances wher e refresh tokens are not provided or have absurdly short lifespans, creates signific ant oper ational overhead for main taining continuous data access. ○ Standar dized Refresh Token Renewal: A consis tent and standar dized mechanism for refreshing access and refresh tokens, adhering to established OAuth 2.0 best practices, mus t be enforced. This includes clearly defined error handling for expired or invalid tokens and predict able renewal flows. ○ Elimina te Manual Re-authoriz ation: The "without special effort" clause implies that once an applic ation is authoriz ed by a patient or system adminis trator, it should not requir e frequen t manual re-authoriz ation unless there is a chang e in scope or a security event. The frequen t need for manual re-authen tication due to short -lived tokens or lack of refresh token support is a direct viola tion of this principle. ○ Audit and Enforcemen t of Token Manag emen t: ONC should activ ely audit EHRs' token manag emen t practices to ensur e compliance with these requir emen ts and investigate instances wher e refresh token policies unduly burden developer s or limit continuous data access. By addr essing these oper ational burdens through concr ete regula tory steps, ASTP/ONC can signific antly reduce the "special effort" requir ed for applic ation distribution and deplo ymen t, fostering a more vibrant and inno vative health IT ecosystem that truly prioritiz es seamless health informa tion exchang e for the bene fit of patients and provider s. E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Network s, 4. Data Exchange, TD-16 Wha t are the tradeof fs of main taining poin t-to-poin t models vs. shar ed network infrastructur e? Main taining poin t-to-poin t (P2P) integration models, wher e each system directly connects to every other system it needs to exchang e data with, offers a degr ee of tailor ed control and immedia te problem-solving for specific use cases. In the short term, for a limit ed number of integrations, it can appear cost-effectiv e and provide direct connectivity . However, these bene fits quickly diminish as the number of integrations grows. The fundamen tal tradeof fs lie in scalability , main tainability , and the ability to foster a truly interoper able healthc are ecosystem. P2P models lead to a combina torial explosion of connections, creating a comple x, brittle, and expensiv e spaghe tti architectur e. Each new integration requir es custom developmen t, testing, and ongoing main tenance, leading to 14 
 signific ant technic al debt. This appr oach hinder s agility , making it difficult to introduce new technologies or adap t to evolving regula tory requir emen ts. Furthermor e, visibility into data flow and overall system health becomes incredibly challenging without a centralized monit oring and manag emen t frame work. In contrast, a shar ed network infrastructur e, built upon standar dized APIs and common data models, offers a scalable, resilien t, and manag eable solution. While the initial investmen t in establishing such an infrastructur e, including robus t governance and shar ed services, can be higher , the long-t erm bene fits in terms of reduced developmen t costs, impr oved data quality , enhanced security , and acceler ated inno vation far outw eigh the upfront expenditur e. A shar ed network fosters a "connect once, access man y" paradigm, drastically reducing the comple xity and cost of adding new participan ts or use cases. a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participa tion? Curr ently, the rules, while aiming for interoper ability , do not sufficien tly encourage scalable network participa tion , and often inadv ertently reinforce the challeng es inher ent in P2P models. Existing challeng es include: ● Very limit ed use case support due to the need for high consensus among dispar ate actors with misaligned incen tives: Achie ving broader use cases, such as compr ehensiv e care coordina tion across multiple provider s and payers, or popula tion health manag emen t, requir es a level of consensus among diverse stakeholder s with compe ting interests. Without a strong central authority or clear incen tives for collabor ation on a shar ed infrastructur e, this consensus is difficult to achie ve, leading to fragmen ted solutions. ● Some rules (e.g., provider s able to invoice payers an arbitr ary amoun t per record) that are logis tical nigh tmar es even if one agrees with the principle: Regula tions that permit or encourage transactional, per-record billing for data exchang e set on an institution by institution basis create signific ant adminis trative burden and disincen tives for high- volume, real-time data sharing. This model is antithe tical to the seamless, always-on data flow requir ed for truly scalable network participa tion. ● A lack of effectiv e governance forcing groups to play by the rules, e.g., openly admit ting they are adjus ting the standar ds for data exchang e of the network they agreed to: The absence of robus t, transpar ent, and enforceable governance mechanisms allows individual actors or groups to deviate from agreed-upon standar ds or selectiv ely implemen t interoper ability requir emen ts. This "shado w IT" or informal standar ds 15 
 adjus tmen t undermines the very founda tion of a shar ed network, reintroducing P2P comple xities and undermining trust. Without clear accountability and consequences for non-c ompliance, the promise of a unified network remains elusiv e. b. Wha t chang es would impr ove alignmen t (for example, API unific ation, recipr ocal access)? To foster a truly scalable and effectiv e shar ed network infrastructur e for healthc are interoper ability , the following chang es are crucial: ● Manda tory API Unific ation and Standar dization: ○ Enforce FHIR- first Manda te: While CMS has encouraged FHIR, a stronger manda te for all regula ted entities to expose and consume data via standar dized FHIR APIs, specific ally US Core profiles, should be established. This includes a clear roadmap for evolving to the latest stable FHIR releases. This should, specific ally not allow a workaround of “exchanging a CCD via a binar y FHIR resour ce” as a FHIR based data exchang e. ○ Standar dize API Security and Authen tication: Beyond basic OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect, specific profiles and best practices for iden tity manag emen t, consen t manag emen t, and data access control within the healthc are context mus t be standar dized and enforced across all APIs. This reduces implemen tation variability and strengthens security . ○ Unified API Endpoin ts and Discovery: CMS should consider establishing a mechanism for standar dized API endpoin t discovery, similar to a DNS for healthc are APIs. This would allow systems to programma tically discover available data services and their capabilities, drastically simplif ying integration. ○ Requir e Granular Data Elemen t Exchang e: Move beyond documen t-cen tric exchang e to granular data elemen t exchang e via FHIR resour ces. This enables systems to consume only the data they need, reducing overhead and impr oving data usability for specific applic ations (e.g., predictiv e analy tics, AI/ML). ● Manda tory Recipr ocal Data Access and Data Liquidity: ○ "No Data Silos" Manda te: Regula tions should unequiv ocally prohibit informa tion blocking and promot e a cultur e of data liquidity . This means not only requiring data export but also recipr ocal access, wher e entities that consume data are also oblig ated to mak e relevant data available back to the network. ○ Patient-Media ted Data Exchang e (PMDE) Empo wermen t: Further empo wer patients as the central orches trators of their health data. This includes robus t 16 
 support for third-party applic ations connecting to APIs, clear patient consen t mechanisms, and the ability for patients to direct their health informa tion to any authoriz ed entity or applic ation. ○ Payer-to-Payer and Provider -to-Pr ovider Data Exchang e Incen tives: Beyond current payer-to-pa yer manda tes, strong incen tives and potentially requir emen ts for direct, real-time data exchang e between provider s (e.g., hospit als to skilled nursing facilities) and between payers (e.g., for continuity of care when a patient chang es plans) using standar dized APIs should be implemen ted. ● Strengthened Governance and Enforcemen t: ○ Establish a National Healthc are Interoper ability Authority (NHIA): This independen t body , with represen tatives from CMS, ONC , indus try, and patient advocacy groups, would be responsible for continuous standar d developmen t, enforcemen t of interoper ability rules, disput e resolution, and auditing for compliance. The NHIA would have the authority to impose meaningful penalties for non-c ompliance and informa tion blocking. ○ Transpar ent Compliance Reporting and Public Dashboar ds: Requir e all regula ted entities to publicly report on their interoper ability capabilities and compliance with standar ds. CMS could main tain a national dashboar d highligh ting compliance rates and informa tion blocking instances, fostering transpar ency and accountability . ○ Shift from "Per Record" to "Network Participa tion" Value: Reorien t financial incen tives away from per-record char ges towards value-based care models that inher ently reward seamless, compr ehensiv e data exchang e. This could involve direct financial incen tives for participa ting in certified shar ed networks, or penalties for main taining data silos that impede care coordina tion. ○ Investmen t in Shar ed National Services: CMS should lead or facilit ate investmen t in critic al shar ed national services that underpin a robus t network, such as a national provider directory with real-time upda tes, master patient inde x services, and consen t manag emen t frame works that can be leveraged by all participan ts. By adop ting these tech- forward chang es, CMS can transition the healthc are indus try from a fragmen ted P2P landsc ape to a truly integrated and scalable shar ed network infrastructur e, ultima tely impr oving patient care, reducing adminis trative burden, and fostering inno vation Conclusion 17 
 Redox appr eciates the Adminis tration’ s though tful and compr ehensiv e appr oach to advancing interoper ability across the healthc are system and we kindly thank you for considering our commen ts. The ques tions posed in this RFI reflect a strong under standing of the practic al and systemic challeng es that provider s, payers, developer s, and mos t import antly, patients continue to face in accessing and exchanging health data. As a platform that supports a wide range of healthc are organizations and use cases, we recogniz e both the progress made and the work still ahead to mak e seamless data exchang e a reality . We are encouraged by CMS ’s continued leader ship on these issues and welcome the opportunity to support this effort with insigh ts from our experience working across the ecosystem. Sincer ely, Redox, Inc. Website: https://r edoxengine.c om/ Contact: Trip Hofer, CEO Email: thofer@redo xengine.c om 18 