 June 10, 2025 Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology 330 C Street SW Washington, DC 20201 Re: RIN 0938-A V68 Dear Dr. Thomas Keane, M.D.: GoodRx appreciates the opportunity to share comments in response to the proposed rule RIN 0938-A V68 titled “Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem”. We recognize the significant challenges in the healthcare ecosystem and commend the ONC’ s continued focus on building and expanding a new digital foundation for interconnectivity , equity , and innovation. By way of background, GoodRx’ s mission is to enable Americans to access affordable healthcare. One way GoodRx does this is through aggregating prescription prices and discounts to make competitive price points on medications available to consumers and healthcare professionals via an easily accessible website and mobile application. Additionally , over 25% of our user base are Medicare beneficiaries and use GoodRx outside of their Medicare benefit. While the proposed rule addresses a broader range of compelling issues, we will limit our comments to the following sections we feel best addresses consumer application vendors. : E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers and Networks We commend CMS for its proactive engagement with technology stakeholders and wish to highlight the following: 1. Expand Beneficiary Access to Blue Button We strongly support CMS efforts to increase awareness and adoption of Blue Button among Medicare beneficiaries. Expanding marketing and education efforts will empower beneficiaries to take control of their health data, promoting transparency , consumer engagement and informed decision-making. Greater participation in Blue Button will also fuel innovation, particularly among consumer application companies. This will help unlock new tools and services that improve transparency , affordability and patient experience. 2. Support for Kantara Initiative for Digital Identity Solutions: GoodRx supports the use of trusted identity providers, such as those certified under the Kantara initiative. Defining a list of trusted digital identity solution services enables organizations to use secure, privacy-preserving authentication aligned with NIST 800-63 standards at scale and we encourage CMS to facilitate their integration across Medicare-related services. While SMAR T on FHIR provides a valuable technical foundation for secure, standards-based authentication and authorization, we note that it presents significant barriers for consumer application developers to scale. Use of trusted digital identity solutions promotes uniform implementation across systems, and prevents inconsistent registration and credentialing process and a confusing customer login workflow . 3. Encourage Broader Participation in TEFCA and IAS: We encourage CMS to incentivize participation in initiatives such as the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) that support Individual Access Services (IAS). Broader engagement will help ensure that data access remains equitable, secure and scalable across all networks. 
 4. Prioritize Use of FHIR and Structured Data Standards: We believe in the importance of interoperable, standardized formats. FHIR and other structured APIs allow for high-quality , action data exchange. In contrast, reliance on large language models (LLM’ s) and unstructured data formats to exchange data may introduce risks related to accuracy , privacy , and reproducibility . Thank you once again for the opportunity to share comments on this proposed rule. We welcome further discussions and would be happy to share additional insights to support continued advancements in the healthcare ecosystem that foster interconnectivity , equity , and innovation. Sincerely , N.B. Shingate Nitin Shingate CTO, GoodRx 