P•C•R•C
Physician Clinical Registry Coalition
June 16, 2025
Submitted Electronically
The Honorable Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attn: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem; CMS-0042-NC
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244
RE: Physician Clinical Registry Coalition’s Comments in Response to the Request for
Information on Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
Dear Administrator Oz:
The undersigned members of the Physician Clinical Registry Coalition (the “Coalition”)
appreciate the opportunity to provide comments in response to the Request for Information
(“RFI”) concerning health technology, clinical quality data, and interoperability. The Coalition
is a group of medical society-sponsored clinical data registries that collect and analyze clinical
outcomes data to identify best practices and improve patient care. We are committed to
advocating for policies that encourage and enable the development of clinical data registries and
enhance their ability to improve quality of care and promote the health and well-being of
Americans through the analysis and reporting of clinical indications, treatments, and outcomes.
Clinician-led clinical data registries play an indispensable role in enhancing quality reporting,
promoting value-based care, and augmenting valuable research efforts. As the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
(“ASTP”)/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (“ONC”)
evaluate pathways to utilize and improve health technology infrastructure, we respectfully urge
the agencies to focus on promoting the continued endorsement and support of clinician-led
clinical data registries; removing regulatory barriers that hinder the operation and effectiveness
of registries; refining quality measurement policies to preserve clinical relevance; improving data
access; and strengthening enforcement against information blocking. Our recommendations aim
to preserve and expand the role of registries in value-based care, improving provider experience,
and ensuring that quality programs remain meaningful and actionable for clinicians. For more
information regarding the value of registries and the members of the Coalition, please refer to the
enclosed white paper.

Page 2
1. TD-12: Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what
criteria or metrics should CMS consider?
CMS should champion and expand the use of clinician-led clinical data registries as essential
tools in improving care quality and facilitating research. Under the 21st Century Cures Act,
clinician-led clinical data registries must meet high standards that demonstrate their rigor and
reliability. Clinician-led clinical data registries must be clinician-led or controlled, operate as
tax-exempt entities, and be devoted to the care of a population defined by a specific disease,
condition, exposure, or therapy.1 Additionally, clinician-led clinical data registries must conduct
core activities such as collecting detailed, standardized data on an ongoing basis, providing
feedback to participants, meeting standards for data quality, and providing ongoing training and
support for participants.2 To ensure accuracy and integrity, clinician-led clinical data registries
also are required to systematically collect data, use standardized data elements, verify data
completeness and validity, and ensure regular data audits.3
Given these requirements, clinician-led clinical data registries are uniquely positioned to advance
the healthcare system’s transformation toward value-based care. Their infrastructure enables
timely and actionable feedback to providers, as well as sophisticated data aggregation and
benchmarking analyses in support of a wide range of scientific, clinical, and policy objectives.
By using registry data to benchmark provider performance against peers, registries can help
identify variation in care delivery, which can highlight opportunities for improvement or reveal
best practices to emulate. These registries generate real-world evidence critical to evaluating the
cost-effectiveness of treatments and informing whether services are reasonable and necessary.
These registries also contribute vital data to public health efforts. Many registries collect patient-
reported outcomes measures, which provide additional insights for clinicians and health officials.
Moreover, the measures developed by Qualified Clinical Data Registries (“QCDRs”) are deeply
relevant to providers and reflect clinical priorities. These measures are often more clinically
relevant than other traditional CMS data sources. QCDR quality measures are developed by
subject matter experts, thoroughly reviewed by professionals, and backed by literature, clinical
guidelines, and initial data. Congress recognized the value of QCDR measures when it enacted
the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”). Under MACRA, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services is directed to encourage the use of QCDRs for reporting
quality measures within the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (“MIPS”).4 Further,
Congress explicitly recognized the role of QCDRs in “linking [claims] data with clinical
outcomes data and performing risk-adjusted, scientifically valid analyses and research to support
quality improvement or patient safety.”5
In addition, registries are a source of real-world evidence to support clinical research and
innovation and inform the development of clinical practice guidelines. Registries and their
robust data sets enable quicker and less expensive randomized clinical trials, longitudinal studies,
1 42 U.S.C. § 300jj-14(b)(1).
2 Id. § 300jj-14(b)(2)-(5).
3 Id. § 300jj-14(b)(4).
4 MACRA, Pub. L. No. 114-10, § 101(c), 129 Stat. 92 (2015).
5 Id. § 105(b)(1)(A), 129 Stat. 136 (2015).

Page 3
and other observational studies. In contrast, electronic health records (“EHRs”) are not designed
to support longitudinal quality measurement, benchmarking, or population-level improvement,
nor can they the offer the same specialty-focused expertise. EHR systems are primarily built to
serve billing, documentation, and internal clinical workflow needs. Clinician-led clinical data
registries also are designed by clinical experts within a specific medical specialty, ensuring that
the data is clinically accurate, relevant, and meaningful to specific patient populations. In
contrast, EHRs are administrative tools not developed by clinical specialists and may lack the
clinical nuance required for specialty-specific insights. Simply put, registries are far better suited
for evaluating care coordination, disease progression, and outcomes over time. Although EHRs
are a necessary component of modern clinical practice, they are not a substitute for the robust,
purpose-driven infrastructure that registries provide. Therefore, CMS should prioritize clinician-
led clinical data registries for quality measurement and value-based care initiatives, as they offer
the clinical insight, analytical rigor, and longitudinal perspective that EHRs alone cannot deliver.
2. PR-12: Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information
blocking exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subparts
B through D) to further the access, exchange, and use of electronic health
information (EHI) and to promote market competition?
In response to concerns that EHR vendors, along with large hospitals and health systems, were
knowingly impeding the exchange of electronic health information (“EHI”)—by charging
excessive fees, imposing onerous contract terms, or simply refusing to respond to requests—
Congress enacted the 21st Century Cures Act. This legislation and its implementing regulations
prohibits health care providers, as well as health information technology developers, exchanges,
or networks (including EHR vendors), from engaging in “information blocking,” defined as any
practice that is likely to interfere with, prevent, or materially discourage access to, exchange of,
or use of EHI.6 A practice is not considered information blocking if it meets one or more of the
exceptions outlined by ASTP/ONC.7
While we applaud ONC’s commitment to promoting the secure and efficient flow of health
information, we urge ONC to reexamine the current exceptions, particularly the “fees
exception.” This exception is increasingly being invoked by EHR vendors and large health
systems to block access to data requested by clinician-led clinical data registries. Registries
continue to face substantial barriers in accessing essential data from EHR vendors and hospital
systems. EHR vendors frequently decline to engage in good-faith negotiations to enable the
transfer of clinical data to registries, effectively denying registries any access to such data.
Others impose prohibitively high and often unjustified fees for data transfers, placing significant
financial burdens on providers and undermining the registries’ ability to function. For registries
to fulfill their mission, they must be able to collect accurate and timely data from both providers
and EHR systems. The current restrictions on data flow stifle progress in quality measurement,
evidence-based care, and innovation. Tackling information blocking practices head-on is
essential to realizing a truly interoperable healthcare system.
6 42 U.S.C. § 300jj–52; 45 C.F.R. §§ 171.102, 171.103.
7 45 C.F.R. § 171.103(a)(1).

Page 4
Therefore, we urge ONC to reevaluate the effectiveness of its existing information blocking rules
and narrow exceptions that are being misused to impede data sharing with registries. ONC could
consider limiting an actor’s ability to charge fees to the recovery of costs reasonably incurred to
provide access, exchange, or use of EHI, based on objective and verifiable criteria that are
uniformly applied for all substantially similar or similarly situated classes of persons and
requests. Additionally, in the interest of transparency, actors should be required to disclose the
methodology behind their fees.
In addition, when evaluating the value of the existing information blocking rules, ONC should
also consider how to improve physician access to data. The ASTP/ONC collaboration with the
American Board of Family Medicine (“ABFM”)8 found that only 8% of family physicians
reported that information obtained from organizations that use different EHR developers’
products than their own was very easy to use.9 In contrast, 38% reported that information
obtained from organizations that use the same EHR developer’s product was very easy to use.10
At the point of care, family physicians reported that the electronic transfer of medication data
from outside organizations, the ability to find it, and the ability to use it to reconcile differences
was only possible 13% of the time.11 This is not safe for patients and creates tremendous burden
for clinicians.
In parallel, the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) and CMS should utilize their existing
authority to enforce existing regulations against EHR vendors and hospital systems that continue
to obstruct data exchange to clinical data registries.
3. TD-18: Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of
practices you have experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please
include both situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a
failure or unusable response?
As noted above, registries continue to encounter significant barriers in obtaining essential
electronic health data from EHR vendors—barriers that directly undermine their ability to
support quality improvement and reporting. A striking example involves Practice Fusion, a
cloud-based EHR system, which explicitly informed a registry that it “doesn’t integrate with any
systems to extract data for MIPS reporting.” This blanket refusal to enable data access for a
federally supported quality reporting program poses a serious problem. It not only impedes
provider participation in MIPS, but also obstructs the registry’s role in aggregating, analyzing,
and reporting data critical to improving patient outcomes. As discussed above, some EHR
vendors charge exorbitant fees to access data, which may be infeasible for solo practitioners,
small practices, rural practices, and other provider types that lack significant financial resources
8 Jordan Everson, Bob Phillips, & Nathaniel Hendrix, New Data Available on How Physicians Experience
Interoperability, HealthIT Answers (Aug. 19, 2024), https://www.healthitanswers.net/new-data-available-on-how-
physicians-experience-interoperability.
9 Nathaniel Hendrix et. al., Impact of Response Bias in Three Surveys on Primary Care Providers’ Experiences with
Electronic Health Records, 31 J. Am. Med. Informatics Assoc. 1754 (2024).
10 Id.
11 Am. Bd. Fam. Med., Inc., Presentation at the 2024 ASTP Annual Meeting on Family Medicine Physicians’
Interoperability Experience (Dec. 5, 2024), https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/2025-01/Tracking-Impact-
Family-Medicine-Physicians-Experience_508.pdf.

Page 5
to afford these fees. For example, we are aware of at least one EHR vendor charging over
$20,000 to solo practitioners for data access. These types of behaviors run counter to the core
intent of the information blocking prohibition under the 21st Century Cures Act, which was
designed to ensure that health information flows across the healthcare ecosystem. Even if a
specific refusal technically does not satisfy the current definition of information blocking, a
categorical denial of integration with any system—without justification or a path forward—
violates the spirit of the law by materially discouraging the use and exchange of EHI. The same
applies to charging unreasonable fees for data. The OIG should closely examine these kinds of
systemic refusals/fees as potential forms of information blocking and take timely enforcement
action where appropriate. Additionally, the OIG should respond to complaints of information
blocking within a reasonable timeframe. In the Practice Fusion example above, the registry’s
complaint still remains unanswered months after the submission of a complaint.
Information blocking practices may adversely affect performance scores under the MIPS
program. When EHR vendors categorically deny access to data or impose prohibitively high
fees, providers are placed in an untenable position. If ASTP/ONC are unable to curtail these
harmful practices, CMS should address this by establishing a hardship exemption under the
MIPS program. As with current exceptions, the inability to report would stem from
circumstances beyond the provider’s control. Clinicians should not be penalized for the bad-
faith actions of EHR vendors that obstruct access to essential data.
4. PR-8: What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality
data responsibilities of providers?
CMS should reduce provider burden while leveraging the strengths of clinician-led clinical data
registries. As discussed above, CMS should foster an ecosystem where data flows securely,
efficiently, and meaningfully—from EHRs to registries and back to providers. The elimination
of information blocking by EHRs and large health systems will ultimately benefit providers. In
addition, reducing regulatory burdens imposed on registries will support providers’ quality
reporting responsibilities. Registries take on much of the work of interpreting and submitting
quality measures, and they offer tailored dashboards and benchmark comparisons that would be
burdensome or impossible for individual providers to create themselves. QCDRs often
standardize or normalize data before calculating quality measures offering practices and
providers with more reliable data for reporting and quality improvement efforts. QCDRs also
create quality improvement opportunity for practices by giving them actionable quality scores
throughout the year, not just annual reporting options. For instance, a radiology practice can rely
on a registry to track multiple performance measures and benchmark against peers—far easier
and more clinically useful than navigating generalized EHR reports. In contrast, providers often
cannot extract usable data from their EHRs without significant customization, IT support, or
fees.
When registries are weighed down by overly burdensome regulatory obligations, including
requirements that contravene the language and intent of MACRA, their capacity to serve both
providers and CMS diminishes. CMS derives substantial value from the critical services
provided by registries through the extension of federal resources and enhancement of the
efficiency and overall impact of the MIPS program. Registries assume significant

Page 6
responsibilities in data collection and quality reporting—functions that would otherwise demand
considerable investment from CMS. Moreover, QCDRs develop specialized, clinically
meaningful quality measures that are better tailored to the needs of specific specialties than other
measures.
Over recent years, CMS has established policies that disincentivize the development of
meaningful specialty measures and impose financial and administrative burdens on registry
operations. Removing these burdens would allow registries to operate more efficiently. To that
end, we recommend the following policy changes:
• Data Validation Requirements: QCDRs and qualified registries (“QRs”) must conduct
annual data validation audits.12 If a data validation audit identifies one or more deficiencies
or data errors, the QCDR or QR must conduct a targeted audit into the impact and root cause
of each deficiency or data error and correct such deficiencies or data errors prior to the
submission of data for that MIPS payment year.13 The Coalition appreciates the importance
of reporting true, accurate, and complete data; however, we are concerned that the data
validation and targeted audit requirements contravene MACRA’s directive to encourage the
use of QCDRs for reporting measures. CMS’s policies regarding data validation and targeted
audits are unnecessarily complicated, costly, and burdensome for QCDRs, QRs, and
clinicians. These policies also fail to recognize that QCDRs and QRs employ rigorous
internal quality data controls and conduct external audits to ensure the accuracy of data.
Moreover, the audits that QCDRs and QRs are required to conduct are duplicative of
independent audits that CMS conducts on clinicians. CMS should not shift the burden of
auditing onto registries. Therefore, we request that CMS rescind 42 C.F.R. §
414.1400(b)(3)(v) and (vi) and consider data validation options that are less burdensome on
QCDRs, QRs, and clinicians.
• Measure Testing: CMS may approve a QCDR measure only if the QCDR measure meets
face validity.14 “Face validity” is the “extent to which a measure appears to reflect what it is
supposed to measure ‘at face value.’ It is a subjective assessment by experts about whether
the measure reflects its intended assessment.”15 However, a QCDR measure approved for a
previous performance year must be fully developed and tested, with complete testing results
at the clinician level, prior to self-nomination.16 We understand and agree with CMS’s desire
that all QCDR measures be appropriate, feasible, reliable, and valid. The key to “appropriate
measures” is the development of measures by medical specialty societies. Medical specialty
societies play a major role in supporting the quality performance category by developing,
testing, and maintaining a majority of the current MIPS quality measure inventory. Quality
measures submitted by QCDRs are created by subject matter experts, undergo significant
expert vetting, and are supported by literature, guidelines, and preliminary data, thus
providing implicit face validity for each measure. However, CMS’s specific testing
12 Id. § 414.1400(b)(3)(v).
13 Id. § 414.1400(b)(3)(vi)(A).
14 Id. § 414.1400(b)(4)(iii)(A)(3).
15 Measures Testing, CMS Measures Management System (Mar. 2025), https://mmshub.cms.gov/measure-
lifecycle/measure-testing/evaluation-criteria/scientific-acceptability/validity.
16 42 C.F.R. § 414.1400(b)(4)(iii)(A)(3).

Page 7
requirements are unnecessarily excessive for QCDRs and/or measures, and contrary to the
MACRA’s requirement to encourage the use of QCDRs for reporting measures. The cost of
full measure testing is significant (approximately $500,000 per measure and sometimes
more) and is an expense that nonprofit medical societies, particularly small specialties,
cannot bear. The unfunded mandate to test measures imposes unreasonable cost and other
burdens on QCDRs, and such costs are already causing many QCDRs to reduce or cease
measure development or to leave the program. Moreover, approval is not guaranteed for the
following year, making it an annual uncertainty. The Coalition believes that 42 C.F.R. §
414.1400(b)(4)(iii)(A)(3) should be rescinded and a more strategic and flexible approach to
measure testing is warranted.
• Harmonization: CMS may provisionally approve the individual QCDR measures for one
year with the condition that QCDRs address certain areas of duplication with other approved
QCDR measures or MIPS quality measures in order to be considered for the program in
subsequent years.17 If such areas of duplication are not addressed, CMS may reject the
QCDR measure.18 CMS has failed to implement adequate safeguards to ensure that measure
harmonization occurs only when it is clinically appropriate to do so. This has resulted in
specialty societies being forced to “harmonize” their QCDR measure with other distinct and
non-risk stratified measures, ultimately at the disadvantage of specialists who are left with
fewer meaningful measures to report. In addition, asking measure developers to combine
measures may result in unnecessarily complex measures that increase burden on clinicians
and confusion in the program. Therefore, we request that CMS rescind the measure
harmonization requirement at 42 C.F.R. § 414.1400(b)(4)(iii)(A)(5).
• Flawed Scoring Policies: Topped Out Measures and Benchmarks: CMS should
eliminate its flawed MIPS scoring policies and work with registries to craft a more
appropriate solution to scoring measures. For instance, considerations for whether to remove
a QCDR measure from the program include whether the QCDR measure is topped out—a
measure with a median performance rate of 95% or higher.19 This regulation fails to
recognize that measures are expensive to develop, test, and submit to CMS. Congress
created the QCDR mechanism to fill critical gaps in the traditional quality measure sets and
to ensure that clinicians have access to measures that are more meaningful and relevant to
their specialty. CMS’s policy concerning topped out measures creates an effect that is
counter to the statutory purpose of QCDRs being innovative and targeted to the needs of
different specialties. In addition, CMS’s policy fails to reward physicians’ sustained
excellence in providing care. Therefore, we urge CMS to rescind 42 C.F.R. §§ 414.1305,
414.1400(b)(4)(iv)(D). Additionally, CMS has a policy of generally assigning clinicians zero
points for reporting on a measure that lacks a benchmark, which provides little incentive for
clinicians to report on these measures.20 To encourage measure development and clinician
use of meaningful specialty measures, we request that CMS rescind this policy at 42 C.F.R. §
414.1380(b)(1)(i)(A)(1) and work with stakeholders to develop a more appropriate scoring
policy.
17 Id. § 414.1400(b)(4)(iii)(A)(5).
18 Id.
19 Id. §§ 414.1305, 414.1400(b)(4)(iv)(D).
20 Id. § 414.1380(b)(1)(i)(A)(1).

Page 8
Further, even when quality measures have established benchmarks, these benchmarks often
fall short as reliable indicators of performance across the healthcare system due to the flawed
structure of this program that forces practices to focus on a narrow set of conditions and
procedures not necessarily representative of the scope of their work. The aforementioned
scoring policies incentivize clinicians to report on measures they will perform well on, even
if they are not truly relevant to their patients, simply to comply with the program and avoid a
penalty. As a result, the benchmarks are inherently biased—skewed upward and
unrepresentative of the broader clinical landscape. Consequently, a clinician’s quality score
is often less a reflection of actual care quality and more a function of measure availability,
EHR system capabilities, and access to a knowledgeable registry.
As CMS considers solutions to this problem, including adjustments to current scoring
policies, we strongly recommend against mandating that clinicians report on a standard set of
measures given the diversity of patient populations seen by clinicians across specialties and
even within the same specialty. One of the main purposes of the QCDR pathway is to move
away from a one-size-fits-all approach to quality measurement and towards a program that
recognizes varied clinical relevance, practice patterns, and patient populations across and
within disciplines. It is critical that CMS preserve this flexibility to ensure MIPS
performance assessments are fair, accurate, and meaningful to both clinicians and patients.
• MVPs: CMS has expressed a desire to replace the traditional MIPS program with its new
MVPs framework by the 2029 performance period. Traditional MIPS is a deeply flawed
program that requires significant reform. Unfortunately, the implementation of MVPs only
exacerbates these problems. The MVP framework fails to resolve foundational issues in the
MIPS program, including problematic MIPS scoring rules and other policies that often
disincentivize the development and use of more clinically focused measures and participation
pathways that better align with clinical practice. In addition, medical societies have
expressed serious concerns regarding the development of MVPs applicable to their
specialties. Specifically, medical societies are concerned that measures included in MVPs
are not meaningful to providers and that MVP reporting will necessitate costly IT support.
Some barriers to MVP development include lack of applicable MIPS measures that apply to
the specialty, lack of benchmarks for existing QCDR measures, measure testing requirements
that will limit the number of QCDR measures eligible for inclusion in MVPs, and lack of
relevant cost measures. We have serious concerns that CMS is developing the MVP
framework contrary to the language and spirit of MACRA. CMS appears to be limiting the
number of QCDR measures in MVPs by excluding QCDR measures or asking QCDR
measures to be harmonized with existing measures. During the MVP development process,
CMS has declined, on numerous occasions, to adopt QCDR measures recommended by
medical societies. In doing so, the agency failed to provide a sufficient rationale for refusing
to include measures that were deemed by providers to be clinically meaningful. CMS should
continue to recognize MVP participation as voluntary and work with stakeholders to craft a
solution that better responds to concerns regarding the traditional MIPS program.
CMS should reform the MIPS program by simplifying and streamlining requirements for both
providers and registries. Easing regulatory burdens on clinical data registries is not about

Page 9
relaxing oversight—it strategically empowers registries to better serve providers. When
registries can focus on their core functions, CMS and providers benefit.
5. PR-8: In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities
of providers be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed?
Consolidation must be carefully balanced with the need to preserve specialty-specific clinical
relevance. To the extent CMS is considering to further consolidate measures within the MIPS
program, we urge the agency to proceed with caution as consolidation must not come at the
expense of meaningful quality measurement or specialty-specific relevance. As noted above,
CMS’s current approach to harmonization lacks adequate safeguards to ensure that alignment of
measures occurs only when clinically appropriate. This has led to situations where QCDRs are
compelled to “harmonize” their measures with unrelated measures. Forced harmonization
diminishes the clinical integrity of quality reporting and leaves specialists with fewer, less
meaningful options for performance evaluation.
Moreover, we are concerned by CMS’s increasing tendency to exclude clinically meaningful
QCDR measures from MVPs, even in cases where the applicable specialty society has strongly
advocated for their inclusion. This results in limited measure choice, weakens the overall
validity of MVPs, and risks shifting the focus of quality programs away from genuine clinical
improvement. The current MVP framework, as implemented, does little to incentivize the
development or adoption of more robust, evidence-based quality measures. If CMS intends to
strengthen the MVP program and maintain clinician engagement, it must prioritize the inclusion
of meaningful, validated QCDR measures and preserve the flexibility providers need to report on
what matters most to their patients and practices. Overall, consolidation should not be prioritized
over clinical relevance and patient care.
Further, as the agency undertakes consolidation efforts, we urge CMS to properly utilize
registries. For instance, the Coalition encourages CMS to provide full credit under the MIPS
Promoting Interoperability category to eligible clinicians and groups using an EHR to participate
in a QCDR. Allowing providers to receive credit under the Promoting Interoperability Program
for interoperability activities would reduce health care provider burden while giving providers
the flexibility to pursue innovative applications of health IT.
6. PC-8: What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app
developers and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use
(for example, claims data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports,
appointment schedules, prices)?
Section 105(b) of MACRA directs CMS to provide Medicare claims data to QCDRs “for
purposes of linking such data with clinical outcomes data and performing risk-adjusted,
scientifically valid analyses and research to support quality improvement or patient safety.”21
Despite this mandate, the agency has not provided the timely, broad, and continuous access to
Medicare claims data contemplated by Section 105(b) and necessary for QCDRs to effectively
link their outcomes data with Medicare claims data. This failure to comply with the clear
21 42 U.S.C. § 1395kk-2(b)(1)(A).

Page 10
statutory mandate in MACRA limits QCDRs’ ability to perform longitudinal and other data
analyses for quality improvement, patient safety, cost-effectiveness, and research purposes.
Currently, QCDRs have two options for accessing Medicare claims data—the QE Program and
the Virtual Research Data Center (“VRDC”). The VRDC is a virtual research environment
under which QCDRs can—in theory—access Medicare claims data. However, the VRDC
program only allows the use of claims data for very specific research purposes. The VRDC
application and data request process also is slow, cumbersome, and expensive.
The QE Program enables organizations approved as “qualified entities” to receive Medicare
claims data for use in evaluating provider performance for quality improvement purposes. CMS
offers QCDRs the option of becoming “quasi-qualified entities” under this program.22 However,
quasi-qualified entity status only provides QCDRs access to provider-wide and state-specific
data. QCDRs generally need data on a provider-specialty specific and nationwide basis. Thus,
qualified entity status would provide QCDRs with both more and less data than they need to link
Medicare Claims data with provider-level clinical outcomes data. In addition, the application
process and associated fees imposed by this program is too costly and cumbersome to provide
registries with timely and meaningful access to claims data. Neither the VRDC process nor QE
Program provide QCDRs with the type of access to Medicare claims data that satisfies the
requirements of Section 105(b).
Therefore, we urge CMS to establish a dedicated program or revisit its existing programs to truly
satisfy the requirements of Section 105(b). CMS should accommodate a range of data query
options, including provider-specific, state-level, and national datasets. In order to link claims
data with patient-level clinical outcomes, registries must be permitted to use either direct patient
identifiers or validated probabilistic matching methodologies. Moreover, the cost structure for
data access should be reasonable, and the application process should be streamlined. Once
appropriate data use agreements are in place, registries should be granted automatic eligibility to
request and query datasets that enable timely linkage between clinical outcomes and claims data.
CMS could further enhance usability by developing a secure dashboard or portal system that
allows authorized registries to access and analyze Medicare claims data—mirroring the access
registries already provide to their participating clinicians. Such a system would meaningfully
support quality measurement, care coordination, and innovation in value-based care.
7. PR-8: Are there requirements CMS should consider for data registries that would
support access to real-time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical
care in addition to simplifying reporting processes?
Clinician-led clinical data registries are equipped to bridge the gap between clinical care and
administrative reporting by capturing timely, granular, and actionable data. Unlike traditional
reporting mechanisms, registries often offer customized dashboards and advanced analytics tools
that are tailored to the specific needs of providers and care teams. By striving to deliver near
22 See Final Rule, “Medicare Program: Expanding Uses of Medicare Data by Qualified Entities,” 81 Fed. Reg.
44,456 (July 7, 2016).

Page 11
real-time access to data, registries support quality improvement efforts, enhance patient
outcomes, and facilitate research and innovation.
However, registries may encounter operational limitations that prevent “instantaneous” data
delivery. These challenges often stem from variability in how frequently EHR systems transmit
data to registries, as well as technical constraints among vendors that may delay same-day data
processing. CMS itself has experienced similar limitations in providing real-time data under
MIPS, particularly in the cost performance category, where timely feedback has proven difficult
to operationalize. Given these realities, it would be unreasonable and inconsistent for CMS to
impose more stringent expectations on registries than those currently met by the agency’s own
programs. We urge CMS to clearly define what it means by “real-time” in the context of access
to quality data, and to adopt a practical, achievable standard that reflects the current state of
health IT infrastructure.
8. PR-8: Are there requirements CMS should consider for data registries to support
digital quality measurement in a more efficient manner?
CMS has expressed its intent to transition all quality measures to digital quality measures
(“dQMs”). Registries are implementing dQMs. Currently, CMS defines dQMs as quality
measures, organized as self-contained measure specifications and code packages, that use one or
more sources of health information that are captured and can be transmitted electronically via
interoperable systems. While we support the agency’s vision of a more efficient, data-driven
quality measurement framework, we urge CMS to avoid actions that would devalue registries
and the critical support registries provide to practices to understand, implement, and improve
performance on quality measures. Clinician-led clinical data registries play a vital role in
improving the quality, relevance, and effectiveness of healthcare delivery. Clinician-led
registries are purpose-built to capture nuanced, specialty-specific information that is often missed
or misrepresented in other datasets.
Specifically, some practices, especially small and rural practices, continue to rely on manual data
entry because they are unable to retrieve their data due to restrictions imposed by their EHR
vendor or affiliated hospital system. In these cases, the barrier to achieving digital measurement
is not due to unwillingness or incapacity on the part of the provider or registry—but rather due to
limitations in data access due to third-party health IT systems such as EHR vendors. As CMS
develops and refines its digital measurement strategy, we urge the agency to acknowledge these
real-world constraints and avoid placing undue burden on providers who are eager to participate
but are blocked by EHR and hospital systems.
9. VB-3: What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements?
What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-based
care arrangements?”
We strongly encourage CMS to integrate clinician-led clinical data registries into value-based
care models. For the reasons addressed above, clinical data registries are vital to value-based
care because they provide the infrastructure and clinical relevance needed to assess and improve
quality of care. In fact, CMS has integrated clinical data registries into existing value-based care

Page 12
arrangements. For example, under the BPCI-A, CMS adopted a set of “alternate” episode-
specific measures, which were developed by specialty societies and could be submitted through
clinical data registries. These measures are more relevant to each episode than the generic
measures originally adopted for the program, rely on more informative clinical data versus
claims data, provide participants with greater choice and flexibility, reduce administrative
burden, and result in more actionable and meaningful feedback. Accordingly, we ask CMS to
continue to allow for these types of opportunities to integrate registries into value-based care
models.
In addition, registries also hold promise in more accurately assessing cost in value-based care.
Currently, value-based care is held back by cost measure development that relies strictly on
claims data and does not simultaneously account for quality. Integrating registry data with
claims data would lead to a more accurate and fuller assessment of healthcare value. To
optimize this integration, we urge the agency to provide clinician-led clinical data registries with
more meaningful access to claims data, as described above.
* * * * *
The Coalition appreciates your consideration of our concerns and recommendations. If you have
any questions, please contact Leela Baggett at Powers Pyles Sutter & Verville, PC
(Leela.Baggett@PowersLaw.com).
Respectfully submitted,
American Academy of Dermatology Association
American Academy of Ophthalmology
American Academy of Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery
American Association of Neurological Surgeons
American College of Radiology
American Psychiatric Association
American Society of Plastic Surgeons
American Urological Association
Association for Clinical Oncology
Center for Professionalism and Value in Health Care
College of American Pathologists
Congress of Neurological Surgeons
Outpatient Endovascular and Interventional Society
Society of Interventional Radiology
Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery
The Society of Thoracic Surgeons