Official Comment: Request for Information Regarding
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence
as Part of Clinical Care
The Alliance submits this formal response to the Request for Information regarding the adoption and use of
artificial intelligence in clinical care. Our commentary is derived from the aggregated experiences and
preferences of our ~100 members who are patients, caregivers, and everyday citizens: the “end users” of
American healthcare. About 5 members are citizens of other countries, whom we asked to share their
perspectives as well, as we believed they would possess valuable comparative perspectives.
The open-ended survey questions we shared with members can be found in an appendix below. All analysis of
the survey was completed by members of the Alliance Strategic Office. All member responses were manually
reviewed.
I. Patient Trust and Barriers to Adoption (Addressing Questions 1 and 9)
In response to Question 1 regarding barriers to adoption and Question 9 regarding the concerns of patients: the
Department must recognize that public trust in medical AI is highly conditional on human oversight,
transparency, bias mitigation, and other such factors.
When surveyed on how their opinion of their physician would change if they learned the doctor used AI tools to
make clinical decisions, 60.0% of Alliance members stated their opinion would stay the same or depend heavily
on the conditions of its use. However, 25.9% reported their opinion would actively decrease, while only 11.8%
said it would increase.
The primary barrier to patient trust is the fear of clinical degradation. Members expressed deep concern that
AI use would displace independent clinical judgment. One member wrote: "If they are just using [it] as a
sort of encyclopedia to jog the memory, I would take little offense... but if they did not validate the assertions
made by the AI I would be highly skeptical." Alliance members largely rejected AI as an autonomous
decision-maker; they expect it to be used strictly as an assistive tool and authority and accountability to remain
tied to a human physician.
Additionally, a large majority of Alliance members indicated they tolerate mistakes made by AI less than
mistakes made by humans. Many cited a belief that AI would not be held accountable the way that
humans are.

II. Administrative Efficiency as the Primary Goal (Addressing Questions 2, 6,
and 7)
In response to Question 7 regarding administrative hurdles and Question 2 regarding programmatic and
payment policy changes: the Department should prioritize the adoption of AI tools that alleviate
administrative burnout.
When asked what challenges they wish to see addressed by AI, Alliance members consistently mentioned the
bureaucratic inefficiencies of modern healthcare. Alliance members want AI to handle tasks such as
charting, automated dictation, scheduling, and insurance eligibility verification. By using AI to increase
administrative efficiency, the Department can allow healthcare professionals to spend more time with their
patients. One member with clinical work experience stated: "I would like AI to address the challenges of
administrative burnout, by automating paperwork and scheduling so that doctors can spend more face-to-face
time with their patients."
III. Bridging Disparities and Enhancing Diagnostics (Addressing Questions
6 and 9)
In response to Question 6 regarding where novel AI tools have the greatest potential: Alliance member
responses indicate strong support for AI when deployed to correct human shortcomings, specifically in
areas of diagnostic delay and medical bias.
Patients view AI as a highly promising "Second Opinion Framework." Alliance members highlighted the
potential for AI to act as a "neutral" arbiter to combat systemic medical biases, noting that women and minority
populations have historically experienced delayed diagnoses or had their symptoms minimized due to said biases.
A properly trained AI could flag these disparities and ensure symptoms are evaluated objectively.
Furthermore, members strongly support the use of AI in pattern recognition and image analysis (e.g.,
X-rays, MRIs) and for diagnosing "long tail" or rare diseases that a standard practitioner might only see once in a
career. However, such usage requires AI that is transparent about how it reaches its conclusions and is
demonstrably accurate, so clinicians and patients can trust that its recommendations are reliable and unbiased.
Sincerely,
Alex Hockett and Grant Hough
alex@worldalliance.org, grant@worldalliance.org
Strategic Office
The Alliance

Appendix A: Survey questions
These are the questions we asked to Alliance members
Question 1: If you learned your doctor was using AI tools to help make clinical decisions, would your opinion
of their care increase, decrease, or stay the same? Why?
Question 2: What challenges within healthcare do you wish to see addressed by the adoption and use of AI in
clinical care?
Question 3: Are you more or less willing to tolerate errors from AI systems than you are from humans? Why?