June 16th, 2025
Electronic submission to www.regulation.gov
Re: Response to CMS-2025-0042-NC Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
We appreciate that Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has taken the time to
better understand the current market for digital health technology solutions and applications.
We appreciate the opportunity to share information about our experience at HealthEdge with
Wellframe™, our digital health member engagement platform.
As a digital health tool that helps care managers with patient care, Wellframe is uniquely suited
to understand the needs and preferences of health plan members’ regarding digital health
products and services, with data access and integration being critical areas of focus. Patients
desire appointment and preventative care reminders, access to clinically credible information
about health conditions and how to manage them, and tools to track care information like
medications, blood pressure, and weight. Wellframe allows health plans to deliver health
educational content based on the patient’s needs in over 70 health areas. When patients have
questions or need guidance on their health, Wellframe enables health plans to connect clinical
professionals and providers directly to patients and caregivers.
While patients can access basic information from their electronic medical records and health
plans, valuable information from risk assessments and care plans are difficult to access
consistently. Barriers to digital adoption for payers and providers are compounded by the
ecosystems’ business architecture and technical limitations. The adoption of FHIR-based APIs to
enable data exchange and standardization across payors, providers, and technology vendors
would significantly improve person-centered holistic care.
CMS could incentivize or require providers and payers to use digital health tools. Encouraging
adoption of digital health tools that prioritize data access, transparency, and interoperability
would support digital integration of products and/or services that better serve caregiver and
patient needs. Integrated applications and technology solutions allow the patient to more easily
navigate their health and empower providers with real-time data. Modernizing traditional fax,
telephonic and paper communication would promote interoperability of measurable clinical
risks, gaps in care, and outcomes.
When considering population health and value-based care, digital health tools that encourage
patient engagement with their care team can help support clinical quality improvement while
simultaneously lowering cost of care.
T 781.285.1300 E info@healthedge.com W healthedge.com A 30 Corporate Drive, Burlington MA 01803