Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
Request for Information: Health Technology Ecosystem
Submitted By:
Deloitte Consulting, LLP1 & Thrive Global
1919 North Lynn Street 599 Broadway, Floor 6
Arlington, VA 22209 New York, NY 10012
Please direct any outreach to:
Kim Dedmon, kdedmon@deloitte.com
MT Grant, mt.grant@thriveglobal.com
1 As used in this document “Deloitte” means Deloitte Consulting LLP. Deloitte Consulting LLP is not a certified public accounting firm. Please
see www.deloitte.com/us/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Certain services may not be
available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting.

Deloitte & Thrive Global HHS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
Executive Summary:
In response to the CMS Health Technology Ecosystem Request for Information (RFI), we are
providing information about Deloitte and Thrive Global's combined perspectives on the use of
health technology, along with recommendations for advancing digital health for the Medicare
population and their caregivers. We see a significant opportunity for CMS to encourage the
adoption of digital tools that empower patients and caregivers with real-time insights for
promoting well-being and managing illness. We recommend that CMS:
• Offer a free health and wellness platform (i.e., a reimagined Silver Sneakers
program) to Medicare beneficiaries that uses behavioral science (e.g., nudges) and
modern technology (e.g., artificial intelligence (AI) coaches) to empower seniors to live
not just longer, but healthier and happier.
• Take an active role in vetting and approving digital health tools by developing a
transparent ranking system and issuing a CMS certification or a “seal of approval.”
• Drive broader adoption among providers, patients, and caregivers by creating additional
reimbursement pathways and incentives for digital health and wellness tools.
• Redefine health data and create opportunities to combine data related to daily health
behaviors with traditional health data to create a more complete picture of health and
better measure the return on prevention.
• Foster innovation and stimulate developer interest in Medicare by streamlining and fast-
tracking regulatory approvals and potentially launching a Digital Health Challenge.
Together, these CMS actions can support digital product development tailored to meet the needs
of Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers and significantly enhance health outcomes.
Patients and Caregivers:
1) PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or personal health record
apps that would be useful to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers?
We believe a vetted subset of strongly evidence-based digital health management tools and
applications (apps) is key to empowering Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers to meet
their health and wellness goals. We understand that health is also what happens between
interactions with traditional healthcare. Because of this, people need health promotion tools that
allow them to stay connected to ongoing support and care when and where they need it most – in
their communities and beyond clinic and hospital walls.
CMS-0042-NC Page | 2

Deloitte & Thrive Global HHS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
As one example, Thrive Global’s (Thrive) AI-powered behavior change technology helps
people improve health outcomes by building healthier habits. Thrive’s whole-human
approach focuses on the five foundational behaviors that govern our health – food, movement,
sleep, stress management, and connection. Thrive’s evidence-based behavior-change approach
offers people the tools to improve their overall health or focus on specific conditions (e.g.,
cardiovascular disease, obesity, diabetes, breast cancer, obstructive sleep apnea, migraines, and
cognitive health). At the heart of Thrive's behavior change methodology is an engaging
consumer experience. Thrive’s platform brings together science-backed microsteps — tiny,
incremental, daily actions that cumulatively become healthier habits — storytelling, and
community to inspire people to make better decisions about their health.
Tools like these are particularly important for Medicare beneficiaries, for whom health and
wellness become front and center as they age. Through initiatives like “Digital Seniors” and
“Bluebutton 2.0,” CMS has recognized a readiness amongst its beneficiary population for greater
access to the technological tools that can improve their health. However, the wellness tools
available to Medicare beneficiaries are outdated. CMS could work with an organization like
Thrive, or launch a formal “challenge,” to update the Silver Sneakers program (a fitness
program currently only available to a subset of Medicare Advantage beneficiaries). This refresh
would allow CMS to provide a free health and wellness platform to all Medicare
beneficiaries that takes advantage of modern technology (e.g., AI coaches, behavioral
nudges, wearables integration) to help them feel ready to meet aging with all the tools 2025 has
to offer.
2) PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in
these digital health products?
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products based
on their efficacy, quality or impact on health outcomes (not approving in the sense of a
coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review process? What
technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient and
caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example, enhancements to data access,
reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary communications)?
CMS can encourage patient and caregiver interest in and adoption of digital health products
through behavioral science techniques to promote and incentivize their use. Promotion may
include community marketing campaigns focused on storytelling, workshops, and user
experience. For example, Thrive has succeeded by focusing on a community-based approach,
CMS-0042-NC Page | 3

Deloitte & Thrive Global HHS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
engaging scientific advisors to develop an evidence base for all promotion campaigns, and
surrounding digital tools with pomp and fanfare. CMS may employ these incentives with
Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers, offering free access to wellness tools or
premium reductions for uptake and regular use. CMS may also use regulatory mechanisms
(e.g., payment rules) and guidance to encourage providers to integrate digital health tools into
patient care workflows.
Digital health tools must be built on a robust evidence base to benefit patients and caregivers.
They must also promote uptake and ongoing engagement through human-centered design and the
integration of behavioral science techniques, such as nudging. Because the evidence base and
ease of use are instrumental for digital health products, CMS should have a role in vetting and
approving digital health tools for use amongst the Medicare population, based on quality,
effectiveness, usability, and other factors. For example, CMS may develop a ranking system with
criteria including an evidence-based framework for development, effectiveness or efficacy
studies that demonstrate meaningful outcomes, regulatory compliance, and interoperability.
Technologies that meet an established benchmark may be included in Medicare incentive
programs and/or given a CMS certification or “seal of approval.”
Once a ranking system is in place, CMS can focus on increasing patient and caregiver adoption
of CMS ‘approved’ digital health tools and expand into a secure, user-friendly patient portal and
mobile application. CMS can simultaneously increase and enforce interoperability standards for
improved data sharing and telehealth/remote integration (e.g., virtual coaching, health
appointments/consults). Policy changes can encourage adoption, including additional
reimbursements for providers offering digital health options and communications to ensure
providers know these tools are billable. CMS could also use pilot programs to test and scale
digital health interventions (e.g., through the CMS Innovation Center or the Healthcare Payment
Learning and Action Network), generating or expanding the evidence base for newer ideas,
allowing a wider range of potentially riskier ideas to be tried before full program
implementation, and generating private sector ideas and investment.
3) PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and easy
for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience
using digital tools and services?
Human-centered design principles and behavioral science are instrumental in creating a digital
health platform that is engaging, accessible, and easy to use for even the most digitally novice
patient or caregiver. The platform must come with interactive features that simplify user
CMS-0042-NC Page | 4

Deloitte & Thrive Global HHS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
onboarding, encourage adoption, and sustain engagement over time. Tools must also provide
personalized recommendations and pathways based on specific user characteristics, needs, and
health goals.
As one example, Thrive uses AI to deliver hyper-personalized and targeted
recommendations and solutions based on unique user characteristics, preferences, and goals,
ultimately empowering people to form healthy habits that directly lead to improved health
outcomes. Thrive’s tools help people stay engaged, form healthier habits, and sustain them over
time. These tools include:
• “Daily steps,” which are quick and digestible lessons on one of the five foundational
health behaviors and three specific, small daily actions that support habit formation.
Providing information in bite-sized amounts through multiple modalities is a cornerstone
of Thrive’s approach to user experience and sustained adoption.
• “Challenges” and “achievements” add a layer of motivation and incentive by building
user communities around lifestyle change, motivating active engagement, and
recognizing and rewarding accomplishments and progress.
• Learning offerings in Thrive’s Library span multiple formats to address user preferences
and learning styles, including bite-size videos, courses, webinars, stress reduction tools,
recipes, articles, podcasts, and more.
• Friends and family members can be invited to join users along their health journey.
Involving others helps build and strengthen community and connection, improving
engagement in one’s health and helping people sustain lifestyle changes over time.
4) PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health
outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the best
means of doing so?
Although recent advances in data analytics and the rapid growth of available data present new
opportunities, these benefits have yet to be fully realized due to fragmented data systems, limited
interoperability, and barriers to data access. Combining data on daily health behaviors (food,
movement, sleep, stress management, and connection), user adoption, and engagement
from digital health tools with clinical data (e.g., claims, readmissions) will allow CMS to
gain a more complete view of patient health and more accurately measure the return on
prevention and chronic condition management—tracking the pathway from daily behaviors to
care utilization, health outcomes, and associated costs. Thrive, for example, currently shares
these data in anonymized, aggregate form at the organizational level, but could also implement
CMS-0042-NC Page | 5

Deloitte & Thrive Global HHS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
capabilities to support the secure and responsible use of individual-level data, where appropriate
and with user permission, to enable greater visibility into individual health patterns and support
personalized insights that may inform care planning and outcomes tracking. These capabilities
would be designed in alignment with applicable data privacy and security requirements.
Integrating digital health tools into existing provider data systems and workflows requires
merging complex data sets, developing clear guidelines for data access, use, and disclosure, and
designing a flexible and adaptable process to account for new and evolving technologies and data
formats. CMS should collaborate with providers, payers, and digital health technology
developers to standardize data definitions and reporting formats, supporting consistency
and comparability across the healthcare ecosystem.
5) PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients,
their caregivers or both?
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other
technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data,
clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
b. What specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, would be of the highest value,
and why?
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability,
and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical
research and generation of actionable evidence?
CMS has a significant opportunity to track and use health data beyond what is collected through
traditional healthcare settings. Health outcomes are the result of both the healthcare we
receive and our everyday habits. To that end, we encourage expanding and reframing what
is considered health data. Currently, health data includes metrics like blood pressure, weight,
cardiovascular health and lab data, but not the upstream daily activities and associated metrics
that lead to those outcomes. Access to real-time data on daily health behaviors through digital
health products can enhance providers’ ability to support chronic disease prevention and
management by offering insight into the impact of patients’ unique daily behaviors on acute and
chronic illness. Specifically, lifestyle health data offer actionable insights that enable the
development of personalized care plans and tailored, targeted support.
Thrive, for example, helps patients and caregivers understand the value of tracking and
improving their daily health behaviors and the direct impact of those behaviors on health
outcomes. Thrive empowers people by simplifying health monitoring, improving adherence to
CMS-0042-NC Page | 6

Deloitte & Thrive Global HHS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
treatment plans, and building healthier habits. Thrive also provides users with the opportunity to
view their health data in real time, which, research shows, helps people truly make and sustain
changes in their health habits over time.
By combining traditional health data with data from digital health tools, like Thrive,
providers, payers, patients, and caregivers can have a more comprehensive view of health,
and the specific, targeted steps individuals can take to meet their health goals. This same
combination of data is extremely valuable in furthering research on which specific wellness and
behavioral health interventions are most cost effective and work best for the Medicare
population. To beat the epidemic of chronic disease and help people live healthy, happy,
productive lives, we need to help them prevent diseases and slow their progression. Prevention is
also key in breaking the cycle of high costs and poor outcomes that plagues the U.S. healthcare
system. Directly tying specific evidence-based tools and interventions to better health outcomes
and reduced costs by bringing those data sources together is a critical step to solving the puzzle
of improving health and wellbeing for Americans.
Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks:
1) TD-1. What short-term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developers' interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
and caregivers?
CMS can take short-term steps to expand Medicare coverage for approved digital health products
and create reimbursement mechanisms and incentives for providers, patients, and caregivers to
encourage adoption. CMS can streamline and fast-track the regulatory approval process for
digital health products that demonstrate positive results around quality and outcomes (e.g.,
expand fast-track programs). CMS can also launch health campaigns or competitions (e.g., a
Digital Health Challenge similar to CMS’ Artificial Intelligence (AI) Health Outcomes
Challenge) that feature digital health tools to encourage developer integration of CMS APIs into
their health technology, signaling to developers that this is a space where CMS is actively
seeking innovation and adoption.
Longer-term steps CMS can take include providing developers with access to de-identified
Medicare claims data, encounter data, health outcomes, and demographic information that
they can use to enhance product development research. Developing and implementing a
regulatory ‘sandbox’ can foster innovation by creating a controlled, low-risk environment where
developers can test products and gather ongoing feedback from patients and caregivers in real-
world settings.
CMS-0042-NC Page | 7

Deloitte & Thrive Global HHS RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem
2) TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue Button
2.0 API?
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies to
unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
Access to CMS data can help developers tailor tools to support the unique needs of Medicare
beneficiaries and their caregivers. In particular, data CMS collects on patient health outcomes
and costs may be integrated with application data to more broadly understand and demonstrate
the impact of a technology platform’s interventions on Medicare beneficiaries’ overall health,
healthcare utilization, and cost of care.
For example, Thrive currently partners with healthcare organizations and employers to support
the adoption of healthy habits for prevention and chronic condition management. Thrive and its
partners’ ability to access additional CMS data would support more opportunities for
integrating disease management and health promotion data to tailor healthcare journeys
for patients based on their specific disease progressions and lifestyle factors. Tailored healthcare
journeys may include guiding patients to the right types of providers and appointments to meet
their needs, medication selection and adherence support, and targeted resource recommendations
for patients and caregivers based on their unique in-the-moment needs (e.g., healthy food, safe
places to exercise). Data on the outcomes of these targeted interventions may be analyzed to
determine which specific interventions for which groups of patients and caregivers have the most
significant impact in both outcomes and cost of care.
Conclusion:
On behalf of Deloitte and Thrive Global, we thank you again for the opportunity to respond to this
RFI and share our perspectives on opportunities for innovation in the Health IT Ecosystem. We
would welcome the opportunity to further discuss any areas of interest.
CMS-0042-NC Page | 8