January 9, 2025
Jim O’Neill
Deputy Secretary
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Steven Posnack
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Deputy Secretary O’Neill and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Posnack:
Lumeris is pleased to provide our insights in response to the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) Request for Information (RFI) regarding the clinical use of
Artificial Intelligence (AI). As a pioneer in value-based care (VBC) and the developer of
Tom™—our agentic AI platform—we believe that access to high quality primary care is
the bedrock of a high functioning, affordable healthcare system. Given the declining
provider workforce, the future of U.S. primary care will mandate the smart use of
modern technologies to maximize the reach of a highly constrained human capacity.
Our Primary Care as a Service (PCaaS) model orchestrated through Tom treats AI not
as a static software tool, but as a dynamic Digital Member of the Care Team capable of
performing "digital labor" to scale clinical capacity, reduce provider burnout, and
provide continuous, "always-on" care. By enabling agentic AI to handle "in-between"
care—including proactive monitoring, patient education, and autonomous
scheduling—we can ensure that primary care is accessible to every American,
regardless of geographic or physician headcount constraints.
What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and
its adoption and use in clinical care?
The primary barriers to innovation include data fragmentation, software costs without
sufficient return on investment (ROI) to warrant investment, misaligned financial
incentives, and significant change management. Current fee-for-service (FFS) models
fail to recognize and appropriately compensate the value of "digital labor."
Furthermore, Agentic AI requires a comprehensive, real-time view of the patient to be
effective. Healthcare data is messy. Accessing, aggregating, and normalizing disparate
3251 Riverport Ln, Maryland Heights, MO 63043 | 1.888.586.3747 lumeris.com

data sets are required for the highest use of clinical grade AI. The lack of standardized,
real-time access to Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM) data and Admission, Discharge,
Transfer (ADT) feeds, are prime examples of key strategic hurdles that prevent AI from
acting on critical events (e.g., a medication non-fill or an ER visit) at the moment of
highest impact. AI is a relatively expensive technology and the proliferation of point
solutions that create limited value individually presents challenges to already-strained
provider budgets. Platform solutions promise greater value but come with a significant
initial investment in data aggregation and software implementation. Finally, clinical
workflow-disruptive technologies require significant change management, typically
with an associated reduction in short-term productivity.
What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS
prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS
regulations, policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to
develop or use AI in clinical care? Please provide specific changes and applicable
Code of Federal Regulations citations.
It is paramount that HHS modernize the Physician Fee Schedule (42 CFR § 414) to
move beyond a human-only, time-based reimbursement paradigm. In support of
fostering a modern and forward-thinking health care ecosystem Lumeris recommends
HHS take the following actions:
 Evolution of Coordination Codes: Current codes for Remote Physiological
Monitoring (RPM - CPT 99457, 99458), Chronic Care Management (CCM - CPT
99490), and Transitional Care Management (TCM - CPT 99495, 99496) require
thresholds of human clinical staff time. HHS should allow AI-driven "digital labor"
to fulfill a portion of these requirements. If an AI monitors data and handles
patient education, the clinical objective is met more efficiently than via manual
outreach.
 Modernizing payment for “Digital Labor”: HHS should prioritize the creation of
reimbursement codes for Asynchronous AI-Led Patient Engagement. Currently,
if Tom successfully triages a patient or closes a diabetic care gap through
autonomous outreach, there is often no mechanism for the provider to be
reimbursed for that “digital work,” despite the clear clinical value.
Furthermore, it is essential that HHS take steps to enable the most efficient interfaces
between AI software solutions and electronic health records to foster clinical adoption:
 Information Blocking (45 CFR Part 171): Define the withholding of transactional
APIs (scheduling, referrals, tasking) by EHR vendors as Information Blocking. For
AI to fulfill care coordination, it must have the authority to act (e.g., schedule a
follow-up) without proprietary gatekeeping or "innovation taxes" imposed by
legacy vendors.
©2026 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 2

We encourage HHS to collaborate with the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) to
modernize and clarify regulatory pathways that support safe adoption of clinically
trustworthy AI. Together, HHS and FDA can scale the Predetermined Change Control
Plan (PCCP) framework to better accommodate adaptive AI systems. Continued
clarification of FDA’s Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) guidance would further
streamline compliance for developers and providers. In addition, the agencies could
jointly establish FDA‑supervised “clinical AI sandboxes” with academic medical centers,
enabling real‑world testing, structured monitoring, and iterative improvement before
full clearance. Finally, HHS and FDA can outline and expand enforcement discretion
policies for lower‑risk AI‑supported clinical activities, ensuring regulation is risk‑based
and does not inhibit innovation where there is low potential for harm.
For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise
novel legal and implementation issues that challenge existing governance and
accountability structures (e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and
security). What novel legal and implementation issues exist and what role, if any,
should HHS play to help address them?
We strongly urge HHS to lead the creation of a Federal Safe Harbor Framework for
“Augmented Intelligence.” This should clarify that when AI provides contextual clinical
decision support (CDS) to a "human-in-the-loop," the legal standard of care remains
centered on the clinician’s judgment. This reduces the "liability chilling effect" that
currently slows adoption due to the defensive stance in which it places innovation.
For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods (pre-
and post-deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and human-
centered evaluation methods for clinical care? Should HHS further support these
processes? If so, which mechanisms would be most impactful (e.g., contracts,
grants, cooperative agreements, and/or prize competitions)?
As a technology driven solution, AI presents the unique opportunity to generate more
real-time feedback from the end user, thereby enabling developers to address
feedback in a prompt manner. Our Tom platform leverages clinician-led feedback
through a “thumbs up/down” mechanism that allows the provider to validate or
challenge AI generated recommendations in real-time. This communication avenue is
closely monitored as an indicator of logical drift or regional bias, allowing us to make
modifications, as appropriate, based on the provider’s feedback.
AI tools have the distinct ability to provide multiple layers of oversight through other
AI-powered solutions. Lumeris utilizes secondary, high-reasoning large language
models (LLMs) to perform automated audits of Tom’s patient interactions (an LLM-as-
a-Judge). This “Judge” has the capability of flagging safety concerns or other
aberrancies for human review, serving as a collaborative partner in the AI monitoring
process. Such technologies have the incredible opportunity of boosting monitoring
©2026 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 3

productivity compared to largely manual efforts that require significant human time
and resources.
With the goal of ensuring consistency across the industry, we strongly encourage HHS
to fund the development of “Gold Standard” clinical judge datasets that could be
leveraged by vendors to benchmark the safety of their LLMs. In the absence of a
universal standard, the quality of AI tools provided to clinicians may vary broadly, which
in turn will create differential experiences by patients across the board. Safety must
remain at the center of all clinical interactions, regardless of the mechanisms through
which they are administered.
How can HHS best support private sector activities (e.g., accreditation,
certification, industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and
effective AI use in clinical care?
HHS should promote Outcome-Based Certification that prioritizes the performance of
AI tools in real-world environments (e.g., impact on HEDIS scores) rather than solely on
static software audits. Real-world evidence provides a more meaningful assessment of
the performance of these tools compared to non-realistic “lab-based” environments.
Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and cost
expectations and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools would
have the greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give new insights on
quality, and help reduce costs?
Tom has proven that patients of all ages are willing and able to engage with a
conversational AI interface. Tom outperforms simple reminders, taking that next step in
educating, handling objections, and autonomously scheduling services. As a Digital
Member of the Care Team, it reduces practice phone volumes and in-basket messages
while triaging patients to the most efficient care venue, creating additional
touchpoints to improve quality of care and patient outcomes.
Contextual Clinical Decision Support (CDS) represents one of the greatest novel AI
use-cases in the near term. Such applications allow for the upskilling of providers by
connecting a 360-degree patient view to real-time, evidence-based recommendations
(e.g., UpToDate®). Presenting insights natively at the point of care ensures compliance
with the latest guidelines, improving clinical outcomes.
Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care
organizations have the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What
are the primary administrative hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
Making the decision to deploy significant resources, including AI solutions, typically
requires the attention and approval of an organizations Chief Financial Officer (CFO),
tasked with the ever-challenging role of prioritizing investments within the context of
overall organizational financials, strategic objectives, and ROI. The Chief Medical
Officer (CMO) and Chief Information Officer (CIO) are other primary stakeholders,
©2026 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 4

responsible for ensuring the clinical goals of the organization are being met and that
technology solutions comply with the relevant requirements. Increasingly, health
systems with the necessary resources may take the additional step of naming a Chief
Health AI Officer to provide dedicated focus on the implementation and ethical use of
AI.
The largest administrative clinical hurdle reducing the adoption of AI in clinical contexts
is the "Workflow Interruption Cost"—if AI requires a provider to leave their native EHR
environment, adoption fails. It is vital that AI solutions integrate smoothly with existing
EHR environments and regulatory policies ensure that the competitive landscape of
healthcare technology is not dominated by a monopoly of a few EHR provider’s
proprietary AI tools. Additional barriers include newer AI governance structures with
lengthy privacy and legal reviews as well as IT resourcing for data acquisition and
integration efforts.
Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research,
and accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data
types, data standards, and benchmarking tools.
Interoperability must be a cornerstone of an AI-powered healthcare technology
ecosystem and transition from "Read-Only" to "Transactional." At present, most EHR
vendors allow an AI to "read" data via Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources®
(FHIR) but gatekeep the proprietary application programming interfaces (APIs) needed
to "write" actions like scheduling or ordering a referral. HHS must mandate non-
discriminatory access to Action APIs to allow AI agents to perform the digital labor
necessary to reduce administrative impact, unlocking the full return from these burden
reduction capabilities.
What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see addressed
by the adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do patients
and caregivers have related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical care?
Patients and caregivers increasingly seek connectivity and "always-on" access to their
providers while also having the primary concern of losing the "human touch." Lumeris
addresses this by ensuring Tom always functions as a member of the team, escalating
complex or emotional concerns to human nurses or staff immediately. Tom works from
patient-specific data, personalizes patient interactions, and has access to schedule or
prompt proactive active outreach from the human care team, striking the balance
between high-powered connectivity and sensitivity in interaction.
In addition to loss of human connection, patients and caregivers can be hesitant to
adopt AI and other technology in healthcare settings due to concerns related to the
privacy and security of their health information, the safety and reliability of clinical
judgment and decision-making, and potential for bias and equity concerns. These
concerns can be addressed through promotion of digital health literacy initiatives by
HHS, providers, and the broader healthcare community. Ensuring healthcare AI
©2026 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 5

complies with existing and new requirements for privacy and security establishes
greater trust in technology, and transparency in clinical decision-making and published
research on improved outcomes can assure the public of the benefits of AI technology
in healthcare across clinical settings, geographic regions, and demographic groups.
Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate the
adoption of AI as part of clinical care?
We would strongly advise HHS to prioritize Implementation Science in driving the
adoption of AI in clinical care settings. Equally important, AI-enabled models of care
should be designed and evaluated to ensure consistent access to high-quality care
across diverse practice settings and patient populations, particularly in rural,
underserved, or workforce-constrained communities.
Research is needed to understand how the integration of digital resources that expand
provider capacity shifts the economics of primary care and impacts long-term health
outcomes, particularly among underserved populations. Attention should be given to
the role of practice size and affiliation with health systems and state-based university
systems in the availability and implementation of AI tools and their impact on patient
experience. It is essential that HHS understand the financial and technological limiting
factors that may reduce the ability for all providers, and all patients, to experience the
benefits of AI adoption in the U.S.
Conclusion
Lumeris appreciates the opportunity to provide our insights as a healthcare technology
company dedicated to transforming primary care through AI-driven solutions. We are
ready and enthusiastic to partner with HHS in transitioning the U.S. healthcare system
into the era of Primary Care as a Service where every American has continuous access
to primary care, regardless of geography or workforce shortages. By unlocking
transactional data, modernizing reimbursement to account for digital labor, and
adopting hybrid evaluation models, we can ensure AI is a deflationary force resulting in
engaged physicians, healthy patients, stronger performance for health systems, and a
healthier America.
©2026 Lumeris | Proprietary & Confidential 6