Re: CMS and ASTP/ONCs Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-2025-
0050-0031)
On behalf of CommonWell Health Alliance, we are pleased to submit comments on CMS and
ASTP/ONCs Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem published on May 16th,
2025.
CommonWell Health Alliance is a not-for-profit trade association that includes a variety of
health IT and health care stakeholders. We work on interoperability across technology
companies, payers, agencies, providers, clearing houses, patients, and more. Since our launch in
2013 with services focused on Care Treatment, we have enabled other use cases including
Individual Access and look forward to furthering adoption and expansion of existing and future
use cases.
Our vision is simple: health data should be available to individuals and caregivers wherever care
occurs, at a reasonable cost. CommonWell, with our service provider and members, has created
a vendor-neutral platform to remove barriers to effective health data exchange. We leverage
standards and policies to enable scalable, secure, and reliable interoperability for our members
and their customers nationwide.
Special Note Regarding Our Comments
These comments are reflective of the opinions of the Alliance and its members in regard to the
objectives of CommonWell. It is not intended to represent the individual comments of each of
our Members. Comments made here are not intended to represent the view of any particular
member; and we expect some of our members to submit their own comment letters.
On behalf of the CommonWell Health Alliance, thank you again for the opportunity to comment
on the RFI. We look forward to next steps and continued partnership.
Sincerely,
Paul L Wilder
Executive Director
CommonWell Health Alliance
75 Arlington Street, Suite 500
Boston, MA 02116
paul@commonwellalliance.org
Page 1 of 13

Federal Register :: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to use
cases and workflows that involve technology vendors, data providers, and networks. While we
certainly want technology vendors, data providers, and networks to answer questions in this
section (and in other sections) from their point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to
provide their viewpoints on the technology vendor, data provider, and network use cases as
appropriate.
1. Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate
developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and
caregivers?
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue Button
2.0 API?
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies to
unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
Full support for Individual Access Services is essential. It remains challenging to obtain
data from certain data-holding systems to the user’s preferred applications. Most digital
health tools will fail without accurate clinical data for the user or patient of the app.
Although many apps exist, several potential apps are not developed due to developers'
awareness of data access difficulties, leading them to refrain from creating new
solutions. Manual entry by users is prone to gaps and errors, and compelling users to
collect and upload all information themselves is impractical and labor-intensive. If data
access were more straightforward, apps could improve and compete based on features
and functionality.
When I sought an app to manage my work, personal, and family calendars on my mobile
device, I downloaded five different options before settling on the one that suited me
best. It is uncommon for users not to trial apps—whether free or paid—before selecting
a permanent option. Investing weeks or months to transfer data from provider systems
to an app discourages experimentation, thereby limiting user engagement and
developer innovation. This cycle must be broken to progress beyond the early adopter
stage for health-focused apps.
Furthermore, we believe that OAuth Authorization Code Flow, requiring the patient to
log in to their portal(s), as a means to aggregate data from EHR-tethered patient portals,
is insufficient to advance our goals. Patients often lack and or don’t recall various portal
Page 2 of 13

credentials for all locations where their data resides and may not even be fully aware of
all data repositories. Anecdotally from our consumer application members, we have
heard that 70% of users quit the process when presented with their portal login screen
to access their data via the app of their choice. Even with comprehensive directories
listing every interoperability endpoint nationally, challenges persist. Provider practices
have various ownership and naming conventions, leading to discrepancies between
practice names known by patients and those listed in directories. Additionally, practices
consolidate, split, and change ownership over time, further complicating the matter.
Patients may also have forgotten or misplaced data from previous practices. They
frequently move, change health plans, and switch practices, often unaware of the
significance of older data for their current care. It is possible that they never even
received access to a portal while getting care, therefore not having a credential to use to
login effectively. While the relevance of clinical data diminishes over time for most
conditions, this is not universally true. Patients should have an easier way to collect and
manage all their data, enabling them to participate in health data exchange networks
and frameworks with the same data flows available to their providers.
We strongly advise that ASTP/ONC provide incentives for developers to use the FAST
Security for Scalable Registration, Authentication, and Authorization V1.1.0 as a starting
point for allowing patients to leverage applications without needing their portal
credentials. The FAST Security IG outlines a Tiered OAuth model that removes manual
burden from the FHIR data query process and allows systems inside trusted networks to
process requests.
Regarding directory improvement, we support CMS’s initiative to develop a better
national directory for interoperability. As a national exchange network with over a
decade of experience, we recognize that current provider directories often misalign with
goals and lack accurate and up-to-date information. We advocate for the creation of a
comprehensive directory and encourage APIs for effective data exchange.
However, we advise caution in developing a directory that is too focused on individual
providers and recommend prioritizing corporate identity. Data exchange
(interoperability) and many administrative and clinical functions occur at the practice
(organizational) level, not the individual provider level. For instance, when a provider
retires or departs from a practice, their patient's records and obligations remain with
the practice, not the individual clinician. A returning patient will continue receiving care
from the practice, though treated by a different provider. The relationship between
IDNs and organizations/facilities underneath will be a critical component to “get right.”
The practice should be the primary entity in the directory, with providers listed as
attributes under it. Practice administration and the management of provider details are
likely handled by administrative staff at the practice level. As ASTP/ONC updates CEHRT,
we recommend including directory API testing to ensure consistent directory operation
within the practice’s workflow and primary productivity tools. We recognize that
ASTP/ONC and CMS will need to create incentives for all players to be responsible for
updating and maintaining an accurate directory. Historically, such incentives have often
been one-sided; sometimes placing the burden on the health IT vendor, the provider, or
the payer. For the national provider directory to work, there needs to be incentives for
all of the key stakeholders because each holds an important piece of the puzzle that one
alone cannot solve independently.
Page 3 of 13

2. Digital Identity
TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
a. What are the challenges and benefits?
b. How would requiring digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other
NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybersecurity and data exchange?
c. What impact would mandatory use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol have?
Identity and trust are closely related. Better identification and validation of individual
providers, along with identification and validation of practice-level attributes, will
enhance coordination of care across providers and other entities such as patients,
payers, and public health organizations. That said, it is important that we also consider
the patient, how they are identified, and how we match them across practices. Without
consistency, it will continue to be challenging to scale individual access across networks.
The requirement to use OpenID Connect warrants further discussion, with regard to
which components would be required versus optional. Although one strong ID used
across multiple applications has its benefits, potential issues exist. Some individuals
prefer diversifying their authentication methods to avoid a single point of failure for
access to digital systems, applications, and assets. Moreover, a significant portion of the
data access problem stems from locating data and overcoming obstacles rather than
from authentication itself. Shifting the focus from mandatory use to supporting OpenID
Connect might be more suitable, allowing users and patients to choose whether to
consolidate or distribute their logins or to use a combination of both. The use of OIDC to
create a credential with a Credential Service Provider (i.e., CLEAR, ID.me) within a single
application, and then leveraging that credential (ID) to generate a token for the purpose
of enabling patient access to their own data could be considered. It’s the use of an
existing standard to form a JSON Web Token (JWT) to increase trust, but it’s only
effective if the data holders agree to the use of the standard. Otherwise, it’s wasteful to
require and build if data holders won’t respond.
It is also important to distinguish between the level of assurance that confirms identity
(IALx) and the level of assurance that verifies appropriate credentials for accessing a
resource (AALx) and the technology requirements for each. A resource can have a low
IAL and high AAL—such as an email account secured with multi-factor authentication,
which secures the account but does not verify the identity behind it. Numerous OpenID
solutions do not perform identity verification, raising questions about whether requiring
OIDC aims to improve AAL standards or facilitate IAS at scale. If the latter is the case,
further discussions on demographics-based matching, risk management, and special
effort means in context of an IAS. Specifically for IAS, if OIDC is used to create a
credential that is re-usable by the consumer within their application of choice, it can be
an effective way of ensuring that the identity confirmation part is well maintained. If
OIDC is required to be shared across multiple systems, that adds a layer of complexity
and risk that the industry is not yet ready to tackle.
The more important question to ask is – should IAL2 verification be required – and to
that, we say yes. A person’s identity should be required for their ability to access their
Page 4 of 13

own clinical data. We believe that this is a more secure model because simply relying on
a patient’s portal credentials can be easily misplaced, lost, or stolen..
Page 5 of 13

3. Technical Standards and Certification
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available APIs
over proprietary APIs?
While proprietary APIs will always exist, we endorse standards-based public APIs. CMS
can support this by actively participating and providing its own APIs, facilitating a
national provider directory starting at the organization level where API access resides.
Including API endpoints in this directory would simplify access. However, simply listing
an endpoint doesn't ensure easy connectivity. Although CEHRT mandates vendor-
provided APIs, many aren't functional. The directory should validate API functionality
regularly. We suggest a System Admin requirement for ASTP/ONC to periodically test
API endpoints. Also, consider extended non-responsiveness without resolution as
potential information blocking.
At the June 3rd listening session, there was significant discussion about shifting CEHRT
towards testing APIs at the edge, rather than focusing on core functionality. This
approach could standardize vital APIs and data access for both clinical and
administrative purposes, while giving vendors room to innovate at the workflow level.
We believe that this would be a good step in the right direction to help enforce
successful interoperability.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to health
information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a directory, and
should users bear a cost?
It is advisable to avoid restricting the linkage of a directory solely to FHIR endpoints.
Instead, it would be beneficial to support a broader range of interoperability endpoints,
which could include IHE endpoints, Direct addresses, and other elements. Providers
could also indicate which national or regional/state networks they participate in, to
further show the available options. While there are positive developments towards
using FHIR to replace legacy exchange methods such as document-based exchange
under IHE standards, it is important not to abruptly discontinue technologies that
continue to work effectively. Document-based exchange is expected to remain in place
for many years to come. Transitioning from older technologies to newer ones takes time
and effort, and there is often an overlap during the transition period.
As mentioned above, all key stakeholders to the directory should play a role in
maintaining it, keeping it updated and accurate. Provider organizations play a role, their
technology partners play a role, and payers play a role. We encourage ASTP and CMS to
incentivize all key parties.
TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform?
a. What existing alternatives should be considered?
b. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that should be consolidated?
Firstly, it is essential to consider not only the technological aspects of TEFCA but also its
common agreement and governance. A robust framework is critical for connecting
disparate networks with a common technical and policy ground. CommonWell has
Page 6 of 13

emphasized that the key difference between Carequality and TEFCA is the presence of
an unbiased authority—ASTP/ONC—which does not have commercial interests in the
community's decisions. This neutral arbiter helps resolve disagreements among
competitive entities, ensuring smoother operations.
Secondarily, data exchange benefits when various networks can interconnect. We saw
this in practice in 2019 when CommonWell and Carequality connected to each other
and began exchanging data. A chart of health data exchange over time showed a true
hockey stick shaped leap that year. Since then, we have steadily seen increased levels of
adoption and usage, but no jump was as proportionally as big of an impact as that first
year.
Reverting solely to Carequality is not a viable solution. Although Carequality has served
an important purpose, its issues with trust, policy, and technology have hindered its
long-term potential. While there are several technical advantages of TEFCA over
Carequality, the governance structure, particularly HHS's role, is a major strength of
TEFCA.
A practical example illustrates this point: consider the vetting process for verifying a
participating entity represents an actual provider. There was a practice, that was
primarily digital and telehealth-focused, with a mission to serve communities with
unstable primary care relationships This practice onboarded to Carequality but faced
resistance from a significant implementer, preventing them from exchanging
information under Treatment provisions.
Carequality and other frameworks require adherence to Applicable Law. Under HIPAA,
covered entities must respond to data requests intended for patient treatment, but they
also have the right to verify the requesting provider's legitimacy. Carequality does not
itself vet provider entries; instead, it allows entities to apply their own business rules to
determine if a requesting entity qualifies as a provider, creating scalability issues and
potential conflicts. Without a resolution mechanism, one entity may refuse to exchange
data with another even when there is substantial evidence of the requesting party’s
validity.
Conversely, under TEFCA, if an implementer (now a QHIN) objects to an entity
exchanging data freely under Treatment, the issue can escalate to the ASTP/ONC, if no
consensus is reached among QHINs. This process ensures an impartial decision, unlike
Carequality, which enhances governance and trust. Most entities clear the vetting
process smoothly; only this one instance above has been escalated to the ASTP/ONC so
far. This structured approach facilitates scale and resolution, reinforcing our belief that
TEFCA, supported by HHS, is crucial for nationwide interoperability.
To further integrate organizations into TEFCA, improvements in the vetting process are
needed. We firmly believe that the involvement of an impartial authority is vital for
efficient and effective progression, preventing data gaps that could adversely affect
patient care. Without improvements to vetting, many entities will be left out of
exchange and without an adult in the room, some current QHINs and Participants may
purposefully or inadvertently resist change.
Other issues that require attention exist in TEFCA today. The original design for the
technical framework included QHINs with record location services (RLS) to enable
comprehensive patient record searches within and across all networks. In the late stages
Page 7 of 13

of development of the QTF (QHIN Technical Framework), requiring population level RLS
capabilities was replaced with a requirement for RLS-like capabilities. This change has
led to significant trust issues because it is unclear how a QHIN locates data within their
network. Some QHINs take full responsibility for the patient population in their network
with an MPI to match across entities, others forward patient discover requests to all
entities in their network and aggregate the response and others selectively fan in based
on criteria centered around geolocation – e.g. search the providers near a patient’s
home address(es). In fact, other methods could be used that were not listed here - the
QTF has no standard for comprehensive search. Those outside of the immediate
QHIN/TEFCA community did not understand that this requirement went away and were
very surprised to hear that QHINs are not required to have a comprehensive RLS. The
original concept of a “single on ramp” is diminished without this requirement.
With this, when a querying QHIN gets a “no patient found” response from a responding
QHIN, the requestor has no idea where the responding QHIN looked. Did all entities in
their QHIN say no? Or did 90% of them time out and never respond, and the 10% said
no patient was found? The band-aid is to enable direct entity search capabilities within
the framework as opposed to development of standard search methods, service level
agreements and more informative responses that indicate comprehensiveness.
Likewise, the QTF did not set performance standards or service level agreements (SLAs).
Setting SLAs was intentionally tabled until we had more exchange. We need to revisit
these problems with an adult in the room to help set expectations and resolve what we
cannot conclude on our own as competitive entities with natural self-interests at play.
For all these reasons, TEFCA is much more than a technical standard and we encourage
future, direct governance and support from HHS.
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are its
limitations?
a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the way it is
utilized?
c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping challenges?
How could such challenges be addressed?
d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but less
structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more processing by the
receiver?
Medicine blends structured data with the need for free-form analysis. While language
models can interpret unique document additions beyond USCDI, they have limitations
and may not keep pace with medical advancements. We believe it is important to
maintain and evolve USCDI to incorporate increasingly prevalent data elements but
allow for a mechanism to exchange newer elements as they emerge before they are
standardized.
Page 8 of 13

TD-8. What are the most effective certification criteria and standards under the ONC Health IT
Certification Program?
No comment from CommonWell.
TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT:
a. What are the benefits of redefining certification to prioritize API-enabled capabilities over
software functionality?
b. What would be the drawbacks?
c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certification criteria to require APIs to consistently
support exchanging data from all aspects of the patient's chart (for example, faxed records, free
text, discrete data)?
d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to API-based
data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
e. How could EHRs capable of bulk data transfer be used to reduce the burden on providers for
reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are needed to show benefit?
What concerns are there with this approach?
We support certifying the interoperable edge of products, allowing tech companies to
focus on workflows and product differentiation for current and future customers.
Market needs can outpace regulation, causing vendors to lose technology cycles while
complying with regulatory requirements.
The only drawback is that it may become harder to compare EHRs, leading to more time
spent on product selection and implementation, but we believe the tradeoff is worth it.
API testing should include security and privacy compliance validation to ensure data
movement is intentional and protected against infiltration by bad actors.
TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification Program,
what further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implement the 21st Century Cures Act's API
condition of certification (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv)) that requires a developer's APIs to
allow health information to be accessed, exchanged, and used without special effort,
including providing access to all data elements of a patient's electronic health record to the
extent permissible under applicable privacy laws?
Accessing patient data remains challenging despite low friction for provider-to-provider
exchanges. The main issue is verifying that the requesting party is genuine and matches
a record held by a responding provider. Enhancing identity standards can help confirm
identities but doesn't ensure they match local records. To scale individual access safely,
we need to move away from usernames and passwords to demographics-based
matching, similar to provider data requests.
Individual Access Services (IAS) face two major concerns: safety and security. Missing
data can lead to dangerous medical decisions, while mismatched records pose privacy
risks. Using IAL2 for identity verification and standardizing a demographics-based
Page 9 of 13

matching algorithm can address these issues. Providers currently use risk-based
algorithms that match requests based on various demographics like name, address,
phone number, date of birth, and email.
A national, standardized matching algorithm offers several benefits:
1. Increased trust through uniform algorithms that prevent blocking and false
positives.
2. Reduced liability for responders, as strict algorithms provide defensible positions
for rare false positives.
3. Easier resolution of non-matches, with clear guidance for patients on how to
correct mismatched records.
Given addresses are great for disambiguating one person from another, but are prone
to data entry errors, ASTP/ONC could do more to require address verification in the
provider’s electronic health record. Previously, the ASTP/ONC established a standard for
how to document a patient’s address, but it did not go so far as to require verification or
validation. While 101 George Washington Hwy Apt 4, Jamestown, Massachusetts 34838
may be properly formatted with abbreviations approved by the Unites States Postal
Service, it is possible that George Washington Hwy is officially Rt 9 and that 34838 is not
a zip code in Jamestown at all. Digital verification of the individual’s known address(es)
in the IAL2 process is one solution, but IAL2 is not necessary for in person identity
validation where a patient can present a proper ID. Using USPS APIs to verify addresses
would be a great step forward to standardize address entry with the goal of better
cross-system matching.
We encourage HHS to consider using deterministic identifiers for better patient
matching. Payer IDs, social security numbers, and Medicare IDs can help match clinical
records effectively. Issuing Medicare IDs before eligibility or creating a national health
identifier could ensure better data completeness and continuity. Despite budget
restrictions on a national health ID, early adoption of a Medicare ID, even voluntarily,
could improve health decision-making.
TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products certified through the
ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the capability to perform an
electronic health information export or “EHI export” for a single patient as well as for patient
populations (45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)). Such health IT developers are also required to publicly
describe the format of the EHI export. Notably, how EHI export was accomplished was left
entirely to the health IT developer. Now that this capability has been in production for over a
year, CMS and ASTP/ONC seek input on the following:
a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requirements for EHI export?
b. Are there specific workflow aspects that could be improved?
c. Should CMS consider policy changes to support this capability's use?
No Comment from CommonWell
Page 10 of 13

4. Data Exchange
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what criteria or
metrics should CMS consider?
Yes.
TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing access
to the entirety of a patient's electronic health information (EHI)?
a. What are the primary obstacles to this?
b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI, especially given more flexible
data processing capabilities today?
Working with structured datasets like USCDI is more straightforward, but language
models now simplify handling unstructured information too. While specific advances
from broader datasets are uncertain, enabling EHI through APIs widely is logical.
Requestors who cannot work with the less standardized data can simply skip over the
content and work with what they can until their capabilities advance.
TD-14. Regarding networks' use of FHIR APIs:
a. How many endpoints is your network connected to for patient data sharing? What types,
categories, geographies of endpoints do you cover? Are they searchable by National Provider
Identifier (NPI) or organizational ID?
b. How are these connections established (for example, FHIR (g)(10) endpoints,
TEFCA/Integrating the Health Enterprise (IHE) XCA, or proprietary APIs)?
c. Do you interconnect with other networks? Under what frameworks (for example, TEFCA,
private agreements)?
We connect with approximately 23,000 provider entities, including single site practices,
large integrated delivery networks (IDNs) like the VA, and multi-site specialized practices
such as Fresenius, which has thousands of sites. Our coverage is nationwide without
specific areas of concentration. Currently, we exchange data using document-centric
FHIR and IHE/XCA. Additionally, we are working towards network-wide broker-assisted
FHIR within our community and have an active FHIR workgroup working on refining the
standards and process for this transition within the year. We participate in Carequality
as an implementer and in TEFCA as a Qualified Health Information Network (QHIN). As
of today, we represent the largest number of active, legal entities in the TEFCA
directory.
TD-15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs:
a. How would increased use of bulk FHIR improve use cases and data flow?
b. What are the potential disadvantages of their use?
No comment from CommonWell
Page 11 of 13

TD-16. What are the tradeoffs of maintaining point-to-point models vs. shared network
infrastructure?
a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participation?
b. What changes would improve alignment (for example, API unification, reciprocal access)?
No comment from CommonWell
TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in ensuring
viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough supply and demand, that
results in usage and outcomes?
We do not think the viability of data sharing networks like CommonWell is at risk. We
have been connecting the dots since 2013 and continue to see more Members and
participation every day. That said, we are concerned about the viability of the
frameworks that help bring networks like us together. With trust, operational and
technical issues present in Carequality, we were expecting to move to TEFCA with a
complete departure from Carequality in 2026. While we believe in our network and
invite all to participate, we recognize some entities have different needs and strongly
support a national framework that enables universal healthcare interoperability. We
also feel TEFCA is unique due to its oversight and governance support at the federal
level, and that industry alone would not function as well, particularly when a non-
conflicted arbiter is needed, without federal support. We feel TEFCA is a very small
investment for an outsized benefit.
Page 12 of 13

5. Compliance
TD-18. Information blocking:
a. Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of practices you have
experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please include both situations of non-
responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a failure or unusable response?
We believe that provider organizations should have the ability to enable response to IAS
queries. They should also be properly educated on the risk and benefits to individual
patients and the healthcare ecosystem as they make the decision to participate or cite
an exception to doing so. Unfortunately, we believe some vendors provide guidance to
their customers that leans too heavily on risks, without a fair discussion of the benefits.
Furthermore, we feel some vendors who appear to be capable of technology
enhancements that could mitigate risk, do not ultimately develop these improvements.
b. What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS implement to further discourage
healthcare providers from engaging in information blocking practices?
We do not think new policies are necessary, but do encourage use of existing policies
with followup investigation into reported information blocking complaints while also
looking for patterns of abuse. For example, while most complaints are filed against
provider practices, are there concentrations of these complaints around specific EHRs or
technologies used by these providers? Reported statistics indicate the actor type
receiving the most official information blocking complaints is providers, but many
patients are not aware of the technology products/companies in use by their providers
nor whether the blocking activity is present across more implementations of the same
technology and potentially not the provider’s fault.
c. Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition of information
blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) that lack information
blocking disincentives?
At our scale, it is hard to distinguish between blocking activity, technical issues and
patient matching misalignment. The lack of standards for patient record matching
makes this more difficult to troubleshoot. As stated earlier in this comment letter, we
encourage a national matching standard to make this easier and to accelerate the
adoption and utility of data from providers to patients.
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers, including
CMS?
d. What would further motivate solution development?
No Comment from CommonWell
Page 13 of 13