 Advancing Quality, Measuring What Matters Mehmet Oz, Administrator 6/16/2025 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services, Attention: CMS-0042-NC P.O. Box 8016, Baltimore, MD 21244 -8016 RE: Request for Information - Health Technology Ecosystem On behalf of the Alliance for Person -Centered Care (the Alliance), we thank you for providing the opportunity to comment on CMS's Request for Information - Health Technology Ecosystem . The Alliance is a coalition of organizations that are laser -focused on one goal: to expand the use of patient -reported data in our health care system, through tools such as surveys and quality measures based on patient -reported data. We applaud CMS for seeking input on technology solutions that can advance patient - centered care and improve health outcomes. As CMS considers technology initiatives and digital health products, the Alliance offers several key recommendations to ensure that these efforts prioritize what matters most to patients and caregivers. Key Recommendations: 1. Prioritize involving patients and caregivers in defining what's important for digital health tools. 2. Incorporate patient -reported data in the interoperability roadmap. 3. Address patient concerns about privacy, security and data use and develop approaches for patients to share data with caregivers. 4. Focus on tools that will support patients and caregivers in addressing what matters most to them in health and healthcare. 
 2 5. Create opportunities for pilots that will support comprehensive patient - centered care approaches. Below we provi de specific responses to the RFI questions. Sincerely, Sarah Hudson Scholle On behalf of the Alliance for Person -Centered Care PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take? a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones’ health that can be enabled by digital health products? b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future. The Alliance believes that asking patients and caregivers about their health , including what matters to them in their he alth and health care , is necessary to achieve person -centered care. Accordingly, we urge CMS to prioritize digital tools that help patients and their caregivers record such information (i.e., patient -reported data), share it with their care team, identify obstacles to achieving their health goals, and track trends and progress on various outcomes. We further urge CMS to take steps to directly involve patient and caregivers, in avenues beyo nd this RFI , in defining what ’s important to them in digital health tools. PC-5: What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in these digital health products? In order to better understand what patients need, CMS should prioritize involving patients and caregivers in defining what's important for digital health tools. CMS should include patients and caregivers in the process of designing and disseminating digital health products in ways that make it easy for them to use and ensure that it provides meaningful information and support. Ideally, feedback opportunities for digital health products will involve patients with a wide range of health statuses and backgrounds (e.g., different diagnoses and different familiarities with technology). 
 3 With regard to the specific use cases CMS has in mind – e.g., navigation , CMS should start with the “why” motivating the use of these tools —i.e., explain to patients what particular tools will help them accomplish in their health and health care. Then CMS should ensure that the tools are easy to use and accommodate all types of digital access (mobile, web, etc.) and allow patients to involve trusted caregivers who may have greater facility in navigating digital tools. Overall, CMS should seek to ask patients and caregivers not only what data they would like from other stakeholders (i.e., CMS, plans, and providers), but what data they would like to send those stakeholders. In other words, CMS should be asking patients not only, “what data from your doctor would you like to have”, but also, “what would you like your doctor to know about you?” —this will be essential to building products that patients are interested in and can benefit from. PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience using digital tools and services? Rather than focusing on the functionality of products, CMS should review products based on the outcomes and/or problems they’re seeking to solve. These outcomes should be defined, in part, by input from stakeholders such as patients and providers. Is the goal to improve access to care? What aspects of access are most important for patients? Is the goal to improve outcomes? What outcomes are meaningful to patients? Once these products are released onto the market, their success and/or failures can be meas ured by CMS against whatever problem they are purporting to address, through ongoing market surveillance and research. PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, p rices)? Patient-reported data is demonstrated to have valuable uses for patients and providers . For example, p atients that continuous ly report their symptom s can alert clinicians to symptoms that require interventions sooner , potentially leading to less costly interventions than if patients waited until symptoms necessitated a more urgent visit. Oncology patients that report their symptoms have improved physical function and quality of life,1 better survival rates,2 and lower costs relative to standard ways of reporting symptoms3 In mental health settings, the use of patient-reported data to monitor systems has likewise been 
 4 found to improve outcomes and lower costs.4 Last, patient-reported data can also be used to identify patients needing support to manage their health and health care. This can improve patient capacity for managing their care and facilitate lower costs for follow -up visits,5 better depression outcomes,6 and lower hospital utilization.7 Although patient -reported data has value, it is often difficult for patients to submit to their providers and/or is not interoperable among providers on their care team . According ly, CMS should i ncorporate patient -reported data in the interoperability roadmap. Ideally, patient-reported data (such as goals, symptoms, pain levels, etc.) should be easily shareable across health systems and providers as part of a patient’s medical record. The critical objectives, as it relates to patient -reported data, are a) minimizing the number of times that patients need to submit the same information, and b) providing that information to all interested health care providers that could take advantage of knowing patient goals, symptoms, etc ., in planning and providing care. PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients and caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate barriers to competition among providers or both? a. Examples may include the following: (1) Binding cost estimates for pre -defined periods. (2) Viewing provider schedule availability. (3) Using third -party apps for appointment management. (4) Accessing patient -facing quality metrics. (5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs. b. What use cases are possible today? c. What should be possible in the near future? d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve? The Alliance supports making meaningful quality data accessible to patients through digital tools. Because the Alliance believes that quality metrics based on patient -reported data are the most meaningful to patients, CMS should ensure that patient -facing quality metrics include data on quality measures that use patient -reported data (e.g., depression remission, improvement in function, increase in patient activation , etc.). PC-14: Regarding digital identity credentials: a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use digital identity credentials? b. What could be the benefits if digital identity credentials were more widely used? c. What are the potential downsides? 
 5 PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of proprietary logins that need to be tracked for each provider relationship? a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set of trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for each provider? b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience and access to digital health products and services that may lead to significant improvements in health? Address patient concerns about privacy, security and data use and develop approaches for patients to share data with caregivers. Patients need to be assured that their data are safeguarded from unauthorized use by third parties. In addition, CMS should consider ways to allow patients to share data with a caregiver who assists them in managing their health and health care. PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC -5) digital health products for their patients? VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value -based care arrangements? a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event notification , data extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement, access to claims data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device interoperability, or other patient empowerment tools. Focus on tools that will support patients and caregivers in addressing what matters most to them in health and healthcare. Technology to help with collecting and interpreting data reported by patients ( e.g., around goals, pain, and symptoms) is critical for any value -based care arrangement, as patient -reported data helps identify both the biggest motivators in driving their health care as well as their biggest barriers to getting healthy. For example, asking a patient about their goals can help providers “connect the dots” for patients re: how a particular treatment option will help them achieve their goals. Additionally, when providers better understan d barriers to patients getting healthy —such as a lack of availability of fresh food in their neighborhood, or a lack of transportation — providers can connect them to resources that help address those barriers and result in empowered patients that can better drive their care. All of these use cases will help drive better outcomes at lower costs, which is critical for succeeding in any value -based care arrangement. 
 6 In devising digital tools for providers and value -based care arrangements, the Alliance urges CMS to consider the following functionalities for supporting the use of patient- reported data: o Allowing data collection through multiple technologies (e.g., text, phone call, etc.) that both simplify reporting for patients and ensure robust privacy and security protections for that data. o Ensuring that clinicians can get access to results and visualizations without having to sign on to multiple systems. o Providing data visualization that supports observing progress and trends over time for an individual patient or a panel of patients and allow comparison to benchmarks. o Providing f unctionality to help individual patients and caregivers/families to see their results, understand their results, track progress, make changes, etc. CMS should work with patients and clinicians to test approaches for engaging patients and care teams in using patient -facing digital technology to support what matters most to patients . We urge CMS to test and evaluate setting and population -specific approaches for using patient -reported data to improve care. This could include the use of an alternative payment model that removes other onerous quality reporting requirements (e.g., MIPS, HOS) and focuses on improving outcomes and well -being. Because t he operation alization of digital technology in health systems will likely require significant investment , CMS should consider the best methods of ensuring adequate reimbursement for providers for implementing and using digital tools. For example, alternative payment models that provide infrastructure payments and reward providers for good outcomes may be the most successful at incentivizing use of this technology among providers. For fee-for-service populations, considering what existing and/or new codes may be appropriate to use for these tools (e.g., codes for remote monitoring), may be useful as well. VB-4 What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value -based care arrangements? Incorporate patient -reported data in the interoperability roadmap. As stated in an earlier question, patient -reported data on topics such as goals, needs, preferences, behaviors, and outcomes are critical for succeeding in a value -based care arrangement. In addition, in order to best facilitate i nteroperability, data requestors should not have to pay a per-data-transaction fee. 
 7 1 Basch, E., Schrag, D., Henson, S., Jansen, J., Ginos, B., Stover, A. M., Carr, P., Spears, P. A., Jonsson, M., Deal, A. M., Bennett, A. V., Thanarajasingam, G., Rogak, L. J., Reeve, B. B., Snyder, C., Bruner, D., Cella, D., Kottschade, L. A., Perlmutter, J ., Geoghegan, C., … Dueck, A. C. (2022). Effect of Electronic Symptom Monitoring on Patient -Reported Outcomes Among Patients With Metastatic Cancer: A Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA, 327(24), 2413 –2422. https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2022.9265 2 Basch, E., Deal, A. M., Dueck, A. C., Scher, H. I., Kris, M. G., Hudis, C., & Schrag, D. (2017). Overall Survival Results of a Trial Assessing Patient -Reported Outcomes for Symptom Monitoring During Routine Cancer Treatment. JAMA, 318(2), 197–198. https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2017.7156 3 Lizée, T., Basch, E., Trémolières, P., Voog, E., Domont, J., Peyraga, G., Urban, T., Bennouna, J., Septans, A. -L., Balavoine, M., Detournay, B., & Denis, F. (2019). Cost -Effectiveness of Web -Based Patient -Reported Outcome Surveillance in Patients With Lung Cancer. Journal of Thoracic Oncology , 14(6), 1012–1020. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtho.2019.02.005 4 Lewis, C. C., Boyd, M., Puspitasari, A., Navarro, E., Howard, J., Kassab, H., Hoffman, M., Scott, K., Lyon, A., Douglas, S., Simon, G., & Kroenke, K. (2019). Implementing Measurement -Based Care in Behavioral Health: A Review. JAMA psychiatry , 76(3), 324–335. https://doi.org/10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2018.3329 5 Lindsay, A., Hibbard, J. H., Boothroyd, D. B., Glaseroff, A., & Asch, S. M. (2018). Patient Activation Changes as a Potential Signal for Changes in Health Care Costs: Cohort Study of US High -Cost Patients. Journal of General Internal Medicine , 33(12), 2106 –2112. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11606 -018-4657-6 6 Sacks, R. M., Greene, J., Hibbard, J. H., & Overton, V. (2014). How well do patient activation scores predict depression outcomes one year later? Journal of Affective Disorders , 169, 1–6. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jad.2014.07.030 7 Kinney, R. L., Lemon, S. C., Person, S. D., Pagoto, S. L., & Saczynski, J. S. (2015). The association between patient activation and medication adherence, hospitalization, and emergency room utilization in patients with chronic illnesses: A systematic revi ew. Patient Education and Counseling . Elsevier Ireland Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pec.2015.02.005 