Public Comment
Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
1. [CMS-0042-NC]
2. RIN 0938-AV68
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/05/16/2025-08701/request-for-information-health-
technology-ecosystem
Contact:
Lin Lewis PhD, MBA CLTC MSinReg
314-669-4308
llewis@invobh.com
NPN18079192
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you
understand and manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the
actions you should take?
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones'
health that can be enabled by digital health products?
Both EPIC and Practice Fusion have been the medical records system; recently EPIC EHR systems in
June 2025 has allowed consumers to link to connect to other health providers’ systems.
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things
you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be
supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future.
● See price estimation before booking an appt
● Have an online appt book available
● Can Check in and review previous medical history and ask Qs before the visit
● Receive an itemized bill immediately after each visit
● Understand liability to pay the bill
● Love to see independent lab tests, and image center data and price estimators to be integrated to
the EHR system, and replace any other additional paper forms or faxes.
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health
information in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another
software system)?
a If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided? Somewhat, it makes it very
easy to track previous medical history for follow up visits, including preventative,
medication and lab results refer to PC-1 a and b.
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one
portal or system to access all such health information?
[CMS-0042-NC] pub comment-Lewis6162025 Page 1

Set IT protocol and operational standards and SOPs including change requests and notifications before a
change is to take place, to allow data exchange with permission and protect data safety and security and
integrity and privacy, follow 21 CFR 11 as a good standard; and prevent notification after data exposure.
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were
unavailable? What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones'
complete health information electronically and using it for managing health conditions or
finding the best care (for example, limitations in functionality, user friendliness, or
access to basic technology infrastructure)?
Lab results, imaging, itemized bill; Medical procedure pricing and Medication pricing are not available
currently.
Medical Record offices from Large Hospital systems seem to have different understanding on itemized bill
and balance due, and follow HIPAA.
Obtaining medical Records to support continuous care has been more difficult than pulling teeth; and lack
of understanding and procedure across the board, from individual provider clinics, to dental offices, to
hospital staff.
So the more clear SOPs, the better for everyone to be in compliance and know how to follow the process.
E.g. case 1, There have been cases that take more than 6 -months, and intensive conversations with
hospital billing dept staff to obtain an itemized bill.
Case 2, Even today 06/16/2025, a dental office refused to provide me with a dental procedure fee for
service, and the payment office staff is trying to tell me to listen to her explaining dental insurance and
how it works?
PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or personal health
record apps that would be useful to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers?
Not currently - medicare cost page only offers cost for Medicare Insurance, this is the job of licensed and
certified medicare brokers and agents profession job, we are hoping CMS designate this authority to be in
alignment with State Department of Insurance to streamline the insurance process and have clear
accountability, transparency and compliance.
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of
today?
● many fitness and nutrition programs are not standardized;
● too many membership apps are overwhelming;
● lack of standards and integration to know if these daily activity and health data, e.g. heart rate,
blood pressure, exercise, insulin-monitor, heart-rate -monitor (used 15 years ago)
● Other data collected are accurate and/or can be downloaded and integrated into the current EHR
system, to help clinicians in early disease diagnosis and timely treatments?
● If these massive data have no quality standard or validation, e.g. the blood pressure reading
a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet?
Standardization and parameters to measure for reliability on health data, with repeatability per Good
Manufacturing Process 21 CFR 820 and ISO 13485:2016 with integration to current ICD-10 code and
SOPs will enhance the development process with long term quality standards
[CMS-0042-NC] pub comment-Lewis6162025 Page 2

b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer?
Set standards and SOPs as guidance
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver
interest in these digital health products?
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products
on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not
approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if
there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program
design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products
(for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new
beneficiary communications)?
1) Set long term policy standards with SOPs
2) Price transparency per ICD-10 and CPT/CDT standards
3) Hold frequent stakeholder and subject expert meetings to discuss the policy process in public meeting
forum, and rotate committee members, e.g. FACA, MedPac members to hear other SMS inputs instead
by appointees and venting on conflict interests and receiving pay as NGO?
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider
generated data on patients?
CSM is to continue scheduled public meetings sessions with progress update and project quarterly
reviews to make timely adjustments accordingly
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products
accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly
those with limited prior experience using digital tools and services?
Mobile Phone & Facebook Video and Broker outreach
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on
health outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what
would be the best means of doing so?
Use current standards, FDA NDA submission guidelines
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to
patients or their caregivers or both?
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and
other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims
data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
1) Pre-Appt Notes and Estimate
2) Detailed Medical Notes
[CMS-0042-NC] pub comment-Lewis6162025 Page 3

3) Itemized Bill per ICD and CPT codes
4) Explanation of Benefits (EOBs) provided by payer (carrier)
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of
highest value, and why
Medicare Advantage Rates and Statistic
https://www.cms.gov/medicare/payment/medicare-advantage-rates-statistics
2025 Exchange PUF Datasets https://www.cms.gov/marketplace/resources/data/public-use-files
NHE data https://www.cms.gov/data-research/statistics-trends-and-reports/national-health-expenditure-
data
Medical Lost Ratio Data on Plan Performance https://www.cms.gov/marketplace/resources/data/medical-
loss-ratio-data-systems-resources
EBRI data https://www.ebri.org/publications/research-publications/issue-briefs
To see consumer premium, matching claim data to know if the health plans are performing according to
CMS risk and rate factors - are they in alignment or behind using Medical Lost Ratio as 1 of standard
measure , and the risk factors need to be in sync with population health risk, instead of following
difference rules set forward by CMS for Medicare and Medicare Advantage more toward providers fee for
service, then 2nd set of Rule set by CCIIO team for Individual and Marketplace populations more towards
the subsidized premiums, and Dept of Labor sets 3nd set of Rules based on ERISA, too many different
rules, without standardization on population risk, make plan design and payments difficult to measure and
adjust.
Historical data per NHE is 2 years behind, the MLR is unbalanced, and resulted the premium is not
affordable, providers are not happy on the payment from MA plans, and employers are seeking
alternative (association, self-funded, or self-pay model) of plan, created medical debts for ~ 100 million
American, who often are insured and/or underinsured.
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility,
interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more
meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence?
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients
and caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or
eliminate barriers to competition among providers or both?
a. Examples may include the following:
(1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods
- Yes for 12 months per insurance plan year
(2) Viewing provider schedule availability.
Yes, some offices have auto scheduling; some don't, and the current EPIC system does
[CMS-0042-NC] pub comment-Lewis6162025 Page 4

NOT grant select or add providers or view providers schedule even as the current
patients? Most Apps are done by Phone?
Practice Fusion - has appt reminder, checking in and SMS and email communication -
these features are better than EPIC System
(3) Using third-party apps for appointment management.
No because it will create more step for data transfer and reminder - trade off the data
and time
(4) Accessing patient-facing quality metric
(5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs
- Yes per PC-12 items 1and 2
b. What use cases are possible today?
Per PC12 Item 2
c. What should be possible in the near future?
Providers and schedule can be sync and become available
d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve?
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information
blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be
the impact? Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively
impact data exchange?
Patients and caregivers must allow to have a 3rd party channel to communicate,
providers need to welcome 2nd medical option to validate the diagnosis, and rule out
any medical errors and mis-diagnosis, e.g. personal experience for being mis-
diagnosed with cancer by 2 well-known Hospitals providers, with many unnecessary
tests, until the 3rd independent option with the corrected medical diagnosis. However
the previous misdiagnosis is documented in the MRB report, which is impacting my
ability to secure cancer and Life and Long Term Care Insurance.
Plus sometime, if an issue can not be resolved after lengthen conversation (3 months or
longer), without cooperation, most like from the billing office of providers, it is truly cause
for concerns, which need CMS intervention to find resolution, per plan benefits
documents and Explanation of Benefits, provided by Payers and/or Medicare.
[CMS-0042-NC] pub comment-Lewis6162025 Page 5

PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use digital
identity credentials?
If a consumer has no new phone devices or computer and internet access?
b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were
more widely used?
Allow Brokers and Agents who are licensed professionals with CMS certification to
assist with NPN number
c. What are the potential downsides?
Data security and prevent cyber attack
CMS stated that 946,801 current people with Medicare MID was exposed by Wisconsin
Physicians Service Insurance Corporation (WPS)
https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-notifies-individuals-potentially-
impacted-data-breach
d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information?
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving
adoption?
Assign Brokers/Agents who are licensed professionals; and allow providers as medical
providers team to encourage EHR access, and encourage Plan providers to encourage
members to access plan specific information to encourage engagement.
f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials?
Patients are getting so many online info, and overwhelmed by spams, so distributing
digital access vs creditable source will have better engagement.
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
Too slow for provider to provide itemized bill
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
Currently Explanation of Benefits are sent to patients after each claim from Payer side
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers,
including CMS?
[CMS-0042-NC] pub comment-Lewis6162025 Page 6

● Set timeline for providers to provide itemized bill after each visit
● Set timeline for providers to disclose price for treatment based on ICD-10 and
CPT/CDT code
● Allow Systems to integrate on pricing
● CMS is to disclose annual plan rates and claim data in detail into the NHE data
for government funded plans, ACA and MA and Medicaid plans
● Set Premium Standards on Risk Adjustments based on Medical Loss Ration,
Inflation on Medicare Cost increase, and other parameters
d. What would further motivate solution development?
Think outside the box ideas -
● When consumers apply ACA marketplace insurance, allow brokers.agents to
assist consumers and assign each consumer with a unique Medicare ID like ACA
ID linked to SS#, this unique ID will follow the same consumer during the
healthcare journey, eventually transition into Medicare
● Place ACA enrollees through Medicare Eligibility Income verification system to
directly linked to IRS system and relieve the burden of self-reporting and prevent
income underclare, and prevent overloading Medicaid Enrollment system
● Avoid current healthcare. Gov generating multiple FFM IDs and prevent FWA
because the current HC.gov system has no data depository capability, or health
plan tracking - to know the subsidy investment by the gov
[CMS-0042-NC] pub comment-Lewis6162025 Page 7