Secretary Robert F. Kennedy
Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20201
June 16, 2025
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
On behalf of Connecting for Better Health, thank you for the opportunity to respond to the RFI
“Health Technology Ecosystem.” We applaud the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/Office of the National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) (collectively, ASTP/ONC) for their efforts
to improve health outcomes for Americans through strengthened data exchange and expanded
access to technological innovation.
Connecting for Better Health (C4BH) is a coalition of providers, patient advocates, caregivers,
health plans, technology innovators, and community-based organizations dedicated to
advancing health and social data sharing to improve the health of all Californians. Our vision is
that every Californian and their care team will have the information and insights they need to
make care seamless, high-quality, and affordable.
While we have made great strides in advancing health information exchange and
interoperability, progress has been inconsistent and many patients, caregivers, and providers
continue to struggle in accessing critical health information. Robust, secure data sharing is
fundamental to delivering high-quality, affordable care and ensuring individuals can access their
complete records, yet data remains siloed and fragmented. Central to realizing this vision is
data exchange, interoperability, and adoption of digital health technologies that enable
providers, patients, and caregivers to access timely information, coordinate care more
effectively, and make informed decisions.
Individual access to health data not only empowers patients to control their information and
make informed care decisions but also creates systemwide opportunities to lower costs and
make care more affordable across the health care system. However, significant challenges to
such access persist, with many current technological solutions inadvertently widening the
digital divide. Individuals without access to resources such as smartphones, high speed
broadband, or those who lack the tools and understanding to create profiles and interpret
Page 1
connectingforbetterhealth.com

complex health data, are effectively excluded from the very advancements designed to help
them. Many providers, particularly those in rural areas, also lack access to the technology and
infrastructure needed to fully participate in health information exchange, limiting their ability
to share and access critical health data. These gaps limit the potential of health technology to
meaningfully advance affordability and improve health outcomes. As we contemplate the
future of the health technology ecosystem, it’s imperative that we prioritize systems that
extend the benefits of data exchange to all, in service of a high-quality and efficient health care
system for everyone.
Please see below for C4BH’s responses to RFI questions, informed by the broad-based expertise
of our coalition.
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or
their caregivers or both?
While many patients can access certain clinical data through patient portals, such as lab results,
much of patients’ health information remains siloed and inaccessible in fragmented systems.
Patients are often burdened with the work of logging into multiple disparate systems that do
not communicate with each other. Further, patients find inaccurate information within these
different, proprietary systems, and must correct their own medical records (e.g., medications
and dosages). While the HIPAA Privacy Rule, at 45 CFR 164.526, provides individuals with the
right to request that a HIPAA-covered entity amend inaccurate information within their
designated record set, correcting inaccurate information can be confusing, time-consuming,
and often unsuccessful.
For patients and caregivers, the data sources beyond claims and clinical data that would likely
have the highest value include:
● Comprehensive eligibility and enrollment data, for example making patients readily
aware of the coverage and services they are eligible for;
● Referrals information related to social determinants of health, such as referrals to food
assistance programs, home modifications for accessibility, or durable medical
equipment (DME) services;
● Shared care plans between providers for care management; and
● Housing and homelessness services data, such as that in HMIS systems.
Page 2
connectingforbetterhealth.com

Significant progress in improving interoperability and integrating valuable data types like those
listed above is already underway through the work of existing federal and state initiatives. For
example:
● In California, the state’s Data Exchange Framework (DxF) is a pioneering effort to
improve interoperability by establishing a mandatory framework and shared standards
for exchange across health care providers and beyond. Crucially, the DxF is actively
integrating social services data (e.g., information to support "food is medicine"
interventions) in alignment with California’s Medicaid waiver, California Advancing and
Innovating Medi-Cal (“CalAIM”). The DxF directly supports clinical care, enhances care
navigation, and reduces administrative burden for both patients and providers.
● On a national level, the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement
(TEFCA) aims to create a universal floor for interoperability by connecting disparate
health information networks across the country. While voluntary, TEFCA supports local
exchange efforts by providing a common set of principles, terms, and conditions for
secure data sharing. The framework is designed to reduce the current complexity and
cost of establishing one-off connections, ultimately enabling more seamless and
efficient data flow nationwide.
By leveraging and supporting the ongoing work of initiatives like the DxF and TEFCA, and in
doing so, expand the scope of readily available patient data to include more data sources we
can move towards a health care ecosystem that truly recognizes the interconnectedness of
physical, mental, and social well-being, ultimately empowering patients and caregivers with the
comprehensive information they need to navigate their health journey effectively.
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients and
caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate
barriers to competition among providers or both?
C4BH applauds the Administration’s interest in improving patient, caregiver, and provider
experience by increasing access to whole-patient information to make care seamless, high-
quality, and affordable. Effective care navigation hinges on secure real-time data sharing across
a patient’s entire care team. Crucially, the patient must be at the heart of this process, serving
as the data steward for their health records. This means having the right to control the flow of
their data, including the ability to appoint which technologies and parties may maintain and
share their data.
Page 3
connectingforbetterhealth.com

C4BH sees the following as valuable use cases, centered around patient and caregiver needs,
which can modernize care navigation:
● Longitudinal, Comprehensive Health Records (Patient and Provider Access): Both
patients and providers should have access to longitudinal health records that capture
and store patients’ health information over time, to provide a consolidated and
longitudinal view of a patient’s health status and care history, including diagnoses,
medications, allergies, assessments, and screenings.
● Real-Time Event Notifications: To prompt coordinated care, secure and automated
event notifications should be sent to relevant members of a patient's care team
(including family caregivers, with patient consent) when a significant health event
occurs. This would include hospital admissions, discharges, emergency department
visits, critical lab results, or changes in medication.
● Integrated Health and Social Services Coordination: Use cases that bridge the gap
between health care and social services (e.g. medically tailored meals providers and
housing assistance) support a patient in their whole-person care journey and leverages
cross-sector communication across the health and social sectors that a patient may
interact with. Comprehensive patient information across all systems in the health
technology ecosystem would lead to better outcomes for Medicaid and Medicare
patients, reducing hospital readmissions and improving the patient care experience.
● Streamlined Prior Authorization Communication: Leveraging the mandates of the CMS
Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule, specifically that patients must have
their prior authorization decision within a timely manner, will allow for better care
navigation to occur and ability to make informed medical decisions ahead of initiating
treatment. C4BH believes this use case is crucial for efficient care navigation and urges
CMS to not delay implementation.
● Closed-loop referrals: Closed-loop referrals that inform all providers that services have
been rendered reduce the administrative burden for providers, allowing them to focus
more on patient care rather than needing to manually follow-up to check if their referral
has been completed/their patient has received the services they referred them to.
Closed-loop referrals ensure patients receive necessary follow-up care, help minimize
lost referrals, and improve accountability within the care continuum.
● Administrative data including provider directories and appointment history across
payors, including self-pay.
● Medicare and Medicaid eligibility and enrollment information: Sometimes, individuals
are unaware of their eligibility for crucial programs like Medicare and/or Medicaid, or
struggle with the enrollment and reenrollment processes.
Page 4
connectingforbetterhealth.com

PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality,
timely, and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital
product ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be
mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics that providers are already
motivated to optimize for that could be reused for, or combined with, efforts needed to
support interoperability?
Given the increasing methods and origins of data exchange, providers can be burdened with
the overflow of data to parse through in order to care for their patients. Providers—especially
from smaller or rural organizations—need technical assistance and financial support to build
capacity for secure, effective data sharing.
In 2023, largely in response to organizations’ concerns about a lack of specificity and know-how
to engage in the types of exchange this mandate enables, C4BH launched the Data Exchange
Framework (DxF) Community Sandbox. C4BH recognizes that much of health and social data
sharing success depends on achieving the final mile: ensuring that information made available
through data exchange is high-quality and actionable by balancing standardization with current
capabilities. The DxF Community Sandbox is an innovative tool used by over 350 organizations
to pursue data sharing approaches reflective of current exchange capabilities of organizations
exchanging data under California’s Data Exchange Framework, allowing for meaningful cross-
sector collaboration. An important aspect of the DxF Community Sandbox is the statewide DxF
participant directory which captures user information and enables visualizations critical to
facilitating data sharing among partners. In particular, the visualization tool enables users to
create sub-networks of just their data sharing partners by organization type, location,
geographical areas served, supported exchange patterns, interoperability standards, and
transport methods. Once registered, users can claim their unique test-node where they can
upload non-PHI data which other users can access for testing and validation purposes.
As data sharing initiatives can be burdensome, consuming, and resource intensive, the DxF
Community Sandbox offers a reduced risk and safe environment mirroring health data sharing
in the real-world that not only unlocks the benefits of data sharing, but also illuminates
potential technical, policy, and regulatory challenges. To better support organizations in
achieving coordinated and efficient patient care, the DxF Community Sandbox model could be
explored by CMS to:
● Map where data sharing is occurring to identify and close potential data sharing gaps
and opportunities;
● Test data sharing use cases against national data exchange standards;
Page 5
connectingforbetterhealth.com

● Store minimum data sets and sample implementation workflows that users can adapt
and adopt to accelerate data sharing.
While C4BH supports the use of technical solutions, including mobile health applications, to
advance interoperability, we underscore the critical importance of obtaining consent from
patients to make their data available. Trust in interoperability is rooted in patient trust, and
C4BH recognizes that securing patient consent ensures individuals retain ultimate control over
their personal health information—fully understanding what data is being shared, with whom,
and for what specific purposes.
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC’s Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance or
negatively impact data exchange?
CMS can encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints by fostering
transparency and accountability in the investigation process and follow-up. One of the barriers
to current provider engagement is a lack of visibility into what happens after an information
blocking complaint is submitted, leaving providers feeling uncertain about whether their efforts
will lead to meaningful change. As the CMS Provider Disincentives rule has only been in effect
since July 2024, we encourage CMS and ASTP/ONC to continue to invest in provider education
on information blocking. Detailed, concrete examples of conduct that constitutes information
blocking or falls into an exception would engender trust in the process, making it harder for
information blocking to go unnoticed or unaddressed.
We are encouraged by ASTP/ONC publishing data on the information blocking claims they have
received thus far and anticipate seeing information published on actors who have been found
by the Office of Inspector General (OIG) to have committed information blocking. CMS and
ASTP/ONC could consider mechanisms for providers to “opt in” or provide a “me
too” to published complaints. While many providers experience similar barriers, they may be
reluctant to initiate a complaint on their own due to time constraints, a fear of retaliation, or a
belief that their complaint won’t make a difference. Allowing providers to add their voices
could reduce redundancy and amplify the perceived value of reporting.
To further reinforce these efforts, HHS should coordinate with state health agencies to raise
awareness of information blocking complaints originating in their states for possible follow-up.
Additionally, state partners can be a channel to disseminate information and broaden the reach
Page 6
connectingforbetterhealth.com

and impact of the federal information blocking process through their closer relationships with
provider associations and organizations.
C4BH believes that greater transparency and accountability for information blocking would
ultimately strengthen trust and participation in data exchange, advancing interoperability and
improving patient care across our health care system.
In partnership with health and social service entities across the state, C4BH is designing high-
priority data sharing use cases including those related to housing, food as medicine, population
health, and dementia care. This human-centered design model could be replicated in other
states and nationally, to scale and spread effective approaches to data sharing and
interoperability.
We appreciate the opportunity to provide these comments to CMS and ASTP/ONC and
commend the Administration’s leadership to promote interoperability between health and
human service programs. C4BH remains committed to supporting policies that ensure all
patients, caregivers, and providers have access to comprehensive, high-quality health
information. Should you have any questions regarding our response, please reach out to
Stephanie Thornton at stephanie@connectingforbetterhealth.com.
Sincerely,
Connecting for Better Health
Page 7
connectingforbetterhealth.com