February 23, 2026
Office of the Deputy Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP) and
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) (collectively,
ASTP/ONC), Department of Health and Human Services
RE: HHS-ONC-2026-0001-0001, Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and
Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
Verily welcomes the opportunity to share feedback on strategies HHS can take to accelerate
safe and effective AI adoption in clinical care. Recent initiatives established by the
Administration, including the OneHHS approach to AI, the HTI-5 rule publication and HTI-2
partial withdrawal, and the introduction of the CMS ACCESS model in conjunction with the FDA
TEMPO pilot demonstrate HHS’ commitment to advancing the safe and effective use of AI in
healthcare delivery. We believe forthcoming policy can and should build on the progress made
already by this Administration and the 21st Century Cures Act to enhance access to and
exchange of data that will power AI-enabled care solutions and ultimately improve health
outcomes for all Americans.
Verily is an Alphabet data platform and AI company that is purpose-built for precision health. We
combine deep clinical, regulatory, and technology expertise to provide our customers with
patient-centric solutions that make healthcare more personal and precise. Verily solutions are
designed to make healthcare data AI-ready and fit for purpose across care, research, and public
health. Our extensive experience building innovative technology platforms for data ingestion,
curation, and analysis, alongside our commitment to generating high-quality, regulatory-grade
real-world data (RWD), positions us to offer perspectives on advancing the collection,
standardization, and regulatory acceptance of data derived from real-world sources.
In our response, we highlight three key steps that would help advance the adoption of AI in
clinical care: 1) supporting data liquidity within the health technology ecosystem, 2) encouraging
efforts to improve data reliability, and 3) establishing national, risk-based frameworks for AI
regulation and payment.
1) Fostering a Seamless Environment for Health Information Exchange
Data liquidity—broadly defined as the ease with which health data flows securely and
seamlessly across systems, organizations, and individuals—is the foundational element
required to accelerate AI adoption. At Verily, we believe it is imperative to build a nationwide and
seamless data exchange environment. We acknowledge much progress has been made since
the enactment of the 21st Century Cures Act, which provides the authority for The Trusted
Verily Comments for 1
HHS-ONC-2026-0001-001

Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA), a critical tool enabling nationwide
data exchange. To increase the usefulness of TEFCA, there is growing momentum among key
stakeholders to ensure the consistency of data exchange activities for specific use cases.
However, more can and should be done to ensure that patients and providers - and increasingly
the AI tools they rely on - have access to complete, accurate data to inform point-of-care
decision making. For example, consistent and transparent application of information exchange
regulations, standards, services, and policies will help build trust among data exchange
partners. Relatedly, increasing the speed of enforcement actions may drive broader participation
in the ecosystem.
Additionally, we view the creation of incentives to modernize national data infrastructure and
information exchange as a key element to ensuring that AI tools can function safely and
effectively in real-world clinical settings. Fundamentally, the speed of data exchange will
become an important metric to realize the value of AI tools and their potential to improve patient
outcomes at a lower cost. The Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (HL7 FHIR) standard
can help scale information exchange and access to longitudinal data. FHIR provides the
modern, Application Programming Interface (API)-based 'piping' necessary to move data
efficiently and securely, however, FHIR implementation remains inconsistent across settings of
care delivery. While the HL7 FHIR Roadmap provides a directional north star, implementation
may remain slow and fragmented in the absence of incentives to modernize and ensure
consistent use of this data standard.
Lastly, for this data infrastructure to be effective, health data should also be discoverable. The
development of a provider directory is key for understanding participants in the network. We
believe it may be equally important for the network to have a more transparent understanding of
data assets available across the exchange environment. Robust metadata would be essential
for discoverability and setting standards could help support efficient data exchange activities.
2) Improving the Reliability and Quality of Data to Support Robust and Accurate Insights
from AI Tools and Analytics
While fostering more seamless nationwide data exchange is a critical step, improving data
reliability is equally important to accelerate the adoption of AI-enabled tools in care delivery.
Many AI tools being developed for care rely on data captured in clinical settings, and the fidelity
and validity of that data is essential to ensure AI safety and effectiveness. The value of data is
determined by how well it can inform and support its intended use. Capturing, curating, and
linking data that meets regulatory standards is a process that depends on an ecosystem of
stakeholders. The creation of incentives, including those that are financial and
reimbursement-related, will help improve both data exchange and reliability.
Verily Comments for 2
HHS-ONC-2026-0001-001

We strongly urge the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP/ONC) to maintain and
expand its leadership in national efforts to improve data quality. The United States Core Data for
Interoperability (USCDI) framework provides the essential technical and policy foundation
required for interoperability by establishing a consistent 'floor' for data expectations. The USCDI
seeks to eliminate the ambiguity that has historically hindered information sharing, but more
work is needed to push a common understanding of what “fit for purpose” data looks like in a
given context. For medical product development, the FDA has advanced thinking around use of
real-world data (RWD) and real-world evidence (RWE), outlining what may qualify as
regulatory-grade data. FDA’s considerations for data relevance and reliability could be more
firmly aligned with ASTP/ONC’s interoperability standards as well as with CMS’ innovative
payment models, enabling HHS to effectively build a robust health technology ecosystem that
encourages adoption of AI care tools.
3) Establishing National Risk-based Frameworks to Guide Regulation and Payment
We urge HHS to provide national leadership on standards and policies for AI development and
deployment in the healthcare system. A state by state approach will only fragment and slow
innovation as organizations struggle to implement varying sets of requirements, validation
methods, and regulations. A unified approach to performance evaluation, ongoing safety
monitoring, and payment will be essential for building trust in transformative AI tools.
To accelerate adoption of AI care tools, HHS’ development of an effective regulatory framework
that collectively considers an AI tool’s approval, post-market monitoring, and reimbursement is
critical. An effective regulatory framework for AI should be developed in partnership between
CMS, the FDA, ASTP/ONC, other relevant agencies and external stakeholders (e.g.,
professional societies, accreditation non-profits). The recently introduced CMS ACCESS
payment model and FDA TEMPO pilot provide an initial example in chronic care management
for how such a framework that integrates evaluation, monitoring, and payment could be
implemented.
We suggest that the approach to evaluation and real-world monitoring for AI-enabled care tools
be titrated to the level of risk exposed to the patient or consumer, building on how risk is
classified for SaMD.1 This could mean that a lighter regulatory touch, if necessary, is acceptable
for lower-risk AI tools, whereas higher-risk AI tools might require more continuous and
comprehensive data capture, mandatory reporting, or an expert in the loop to ensure ongoing
safety and effectiveness.
Payment models could align with a risk-based regulatory approach by incentivizing adoption of
AI care tools that are appropriately monitored according to their classified product risk level.
1 https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/global-approach-software-medical-device
Verily Comments for 3
HHS-ONC-2026-0001-001

Interagency harmonization of real-world performance monitoring across regulatory approval
requirements and payment structures could not only help regulators keep pace with the rapid
speed of innovation, but it could also improve efficiencies when implementing statutorily-defined
authorities across approval and payment. Additionally, this coordination would provide more
predictability and instill greater confidence so that AI developers continue to invest and
innovate.
Closing
Verily believes that appropriate, safe, and effective deployment of AI in care has enormous
potential to prevent and better manage disease, and accordingly, we are building technologies
that can effectively integrate multimodal health data sources. AI is already transforming how
care is delivered, and as AI continues to evolve, the importance of HHS’ leadership in this area
will only continue to grow.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these timely and critical topics. We applaud HHS’
commitment to ensuring accessible, high-quality care for all Americans, and its focus on
accelerating adoption of AI-enabled care. We look forward to partnering with the Administration
and other stakeholders to develop and implement innovative AI solutions that make this vision a
reality.
Sincerely,
Laura O’Donnell
Chief Legal Officer and Chief Policy Officer
Verily Life Sciences, LLC
Verily Comments for 4
HHS-ONC-2026-0001-001