June 13, 2025
Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Submitted electronically via regulations.gov
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem [CMS-0042-NC]
Dear Administrator Oz,
Community Catalyst appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Request for Information regarding the Health Technology Ecosystem in
Medicare released May 16, 2025. Community Catalyst is a leading non-profit national health
advocacy organization dedicated to advancing a movement for race equity and health justice. We
partner with local, state, and national advocates to leverage and build power so all people can
influence decisions that affect their health. Health systems will not be accountable to people without
a fully engaged and organized community voice. That’s why we work every day to ensure people’s
interests are represented wherever important decisions about health and health care are made - in
communities, state houses, and on Capitol Hill. We appreciate that CMS is seeking broad input from
Medicare stakeholders, and we want to emphasize the importance of engaging Medicare
beneficiaries, and caregivers – especially those with the greatest economic and social needs.
However, regardless of the design of health technology, the ability for Medicare beneficiaries to
access and effectively use technology is a foundational issue in whether technology will be successful
or not. A 2020 study found that among Medicare beneficiaries, 26.3% lacked access to either a
computer at home with high-speed internet or smartphone with wireless data.1 This percentage rose
among Medicare beneficiaries with the greatest economic need – 50.1% of beneficiaries with income
below the federal poverty level lacked digital access.2 There are additional significant correlations
between digital access and variables such as age, gender, race/ethnicity, census region, income, and
chronic conditions.3 This underlying issue of access to technology has serious implications in the
efficacy of interventions. For example, 30% of beneficiaries eligible (~6 million beneficiaries) for the
virtual Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program lacked access to full digital access – this percentage
1 Roberts, E. T., & Mehrotra, A. (2020). Assessment of disparities in digital access among Medicare beneficiaries and
implications for telemedicine. JAMA Internal Medicine, 180(10), 1386. https://doi.org/10.1001/jamainternmed.2020.2666
2 Ibid.
3 Alhussein, M., Patel, B., & Liu, X. (2023). Closing the gap: Technology Access and telehealth use among older adults in
the U.S. medicare beneficiaries. Telematics and Informatics Reports, 12, 100103.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.teler.2023.100103
Community Catalyst is a 501(c)(3) organization communitycatalyst.org

was higher among beneficiaries with greater economic, health, and social needs.4 In order to deliver
technology based interventions to the populations for whom it has the potential to have the
greatest impact – underlying access issues to technology and internet must also be addressed.
Moving beyond access, to advance health outcomes in a way that is meaningful to beneficiaries,
health technology must be designed to support the needs of the end user: Medicare beneficiaries
and their caregivers. Based on our extensive work engaging older adults, people with disabilities,
their caregivers, and expert stakeholders we have identified qualities of an efficient and effective
health system which can also be translated to health technology:
• Person-Centeredness: Centering individuals' preferences and their ability to choose.
• Whole-Person Care: Coordinating and addressing the holistic needs of people.
• Community and Family Caregiving Supports: Recognizing the complex web of services,
caregiving, and resources that people rely on to stay healthy in their communities.
Below we expand on each of these qualities:
Person Centeredness
Data shows that person-centered care is not just a nice thing to have, but it also has critical
implications for clinical outcomes. Among older adults, having care preferences taken into
consideration is associated with better health outcomes, increased engagement in preventative care,
higher satisfaction with the care they receive, and lower risk for future high-cost care.5
Unfortunately, one-third of older adults report that their preferences were never or only sometimes
considered.6 There are concerning and measurable differences in the experience of person-centered
care among different populations; Hispanic individuals are twice as likely, and Black individuals are
three times as likely, to report that their preferences are not considered compared to their white
counterparts.7 This has serious implications for engagement with a usual source of care and overall
health outcomes.
Relatedly, when engaging people who are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid – a population
that often has multiple chronic conditions and multiple limitations with activities of daily living8 - the
lack of person-centered supports available to navigate health plan selection compared to the
4 Ng, B. P., Hawkins, G. T., Massey, M., LaManna, J. B., & Park, C. (2024). Digital divide among Medicare beneficiaries and
the diabetes prevention program. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 67(5), 746–752.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amepre.2024.06.019
5 Hawes, F., Tavares, J., Cohen, M., & Hwang, A. (2022). Person-centered Care: Why Taking Individuals' Care Preferences
into Account Matters. Innovation in Aging, 6(Suppl 1), 482. https://doi.org/10.1093/geroni/igac059.1861
6 Ibid.
7 Ibid.
8 MACPAC (2024). Data Book: Beneficiaries Dually Eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. Accessed on June 2nd 2024: January
2024 MedPAC MACPAC Dually Eligible Data Book
Community Catalyst is a 501(c)(3) organization communitycatalyst.org

increasingly complex health plan ecosystem is consistently a top theme.910 Similarly, continuity of
care with providers that people view as essential to their health – whether that be a specialist or
primary care provider – is a key factor in choosing a plan.11 People strongly desire accessible,
transparent, and meaningful plan information along with unbiased and neutral supports to help them
select options that best fit their needs and preference.
Whole-Person Care
For CMS to continue making progress on improving outcomes such as avoiding unnecessary
emergency or inpatient care, controlling chronic conditions like diabetes and hypertension, and
encouraging preventive care, it is imperative that beneficiaries be treated holistically. Many health-
related social needs such as food insecurity, housing instability, transportation, and difficulty with
utilities are associated with increased acute care utilization12 and increased chronic disease13 when
left unmet. Holistic care not only improves clinical outcomes but also ensures that beneficiaries have
access to benefits that meaningfully address their needs.
Relatedly, when engaging dually eligible older adults, we’ve consistently heard that the potential to
receive a tangible increase in benefits such as cost-sharing, dental, vision, transportation, and durable
medical benefits is a top factor when choosing whether to select an integrated Medicare-Medicaid
plan or not.14
Community and Family Caregiver Supports
Many beneficiaries with complex health needs rely on an intricate network of formal and informal
care. One of the largest providers of this care are family caregivers, which provide the equivalent of
36 billion hours of unpaid care worth $600 billion and on average pay $7,200 in out-of-pocket costs to
support care recipients via transportation and other needs.15 Unfortunately, family caregivers often
lack the support and financial stability necessary to appropriately care for themselves and their loved
ones, nor are they adequately engaged in the decision-making around policies that affect them or the
people they care for. Similarly, many older adults and people with disabilities who have both
Medicare and Medicaid rely on home and community-based services and other community-based
9 Community Catalyst (2021). Listening to Dually Eligable Individuals: Person-Centered Enrollment Strategies for
Integrated Care.
10 Community Catalyst (2023). Policy Options to Create a Person-Centered Enrollment Infrastructure for Medicare-
Medicaid Enrollees.
11 Ibid.
12 Canterberry, M., Figueroa, J., Long, C., et al. (2022) Association Between Self-reported Health-Related Social Needs and
Acute Care Utilization Among Older Adults Enrolled in Medicare Advantage. JAMA Health Forum. 3(7):e221874.
doi:10.1001/jamahealthforum.2022.1874
13 Hacker, K., Thomas, C., Zhao, G., et al. (2024) Social Determinants of Health and Health-Related Social Needs Among
Adults With Chronic Diseases in the United States, Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2022. Prev Chronic
Dis;21:240362. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5888/pcd21.240362
14 Community Catalyst (2021). Listening to Dually Eligable Individuals: Person-Centered Enrollment Strategies for
Integrated Care.
15 AARP (2023). The Worth of Family Caregivers.
Community Catalyst is a 501(c)(3) organization communitycatalyst.org

organizations to stay healthy and independent in their homes – as opposed to institutional care. Not
only are these community-based organizations (CBOs) key providers of essential care, but they are
also often trusted providers with regularly beneficiary contact. While it is the strong preference of
people to age in place and stay in their communities, unfortunately many of these systems or
woefully under resourced to meet HCBS needs of today’s aging populations.16
Recommendations:
Prioritize input from Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers – the goals for technology use
within Medicare, along with guardrails, should be informed by deep engagement of the people most
affected by these tools - especially those with the greatest economic and social needs.
• For example, CMS should build on efforts such as the Rural Health Hackathon to generate
actionable ideas on how to use technology to address Medicare beneficiaries' health
challenges. This includes the need for a multi-pronged approaches to addressing
infrastructure, workforce, and partnership needs which bridge public, private, and non-profit
stakeholders to ensure technology can successfully be implemented in a way which meets
specific community needs – such as those in rural areas.
• CMS should convene beneficiaries, caregivers, and other stakeholders to develop guiding
principles on technology use within Medicare, including guardrails for technology use and
priority areas to invest in. CMS can build off and leverage the work of the National Academies'
Artificial Intelligence Code of Conduct which calls for engagement of impacted individuals
across the AI lifecycle.
Leverage technology to enhance person-centered care – technology within healthcare is best used
to support human interactions as opposed to replace them. We also know that many beneficiaries
require support from community-based workforces such as Community Health Workers in order to
successfully use technology. Technology should be used to help beneficiaries and providers connect
about what matters most in their care and to help reduce administrative burdens on both groups. We
encourage CMS to explore how technology within Medicare can be used to ensure care preference of
beneficiaries are clear and considered across care networks, and to help beneficiaries remain
connected to a longitudinal usual source of care and health coverage that they are highly satisfied
with.
• For example, CMS can build on efforts such as the My Life, My Story within the Department of
Veterans Affairs to ensure peoples experiences and priorities are clearly reflected in health
data.
• CMS should also use technology to build on efforts such as My Care My Choice and recent
expansions of Medicare Plan Finder both which help beneficiaries, their caregivers, and
enrollment professionals aid in selecting health plans that align with their preferences and
health needs. Technology and data could further aid in matching current providers to provider
networks, current services and needs to plan benefits, communicating plan performance and
16 Community Catalyst (2023). Improving the Access and Outcomes of Home and Community-Based Services Among Older
Adults of Color Enrolled in Both the Medicare and Medicaid Program.
Community Catalyst is a 501(c)(3) organization communitycatalyst.org

quality in accessible ways, and especially for dual eligible beneficiaries ensuring all
information is easily accessible in one place.
Connect dots and facilitate whole-person care – technology should be used to advance collaboration
across systems of care and create accessible entry points for beneficiaries to address their social
needs.
• CMS should use technology to build on efforts such as the No Wrong Door System to
streamline eligibility for public programs, ensure information is accessible and far-reaching,
and facilitate appropriate communication across organizations and agencies addressing the
various needs of Medicare beneficiaries.
• CMS should leverage technology and various publicly available data sources to inform
community level asset mapping that is integrated with health system and health plan data –
that is visual representations of data to help providers and beneficiaries understand what
supports and barriers are available at the community level to address health related social
needs.
Better integrate community and family caregiver supports – technology should be used to better
ensure the long-term support and services (LTSS) needs of older adults, people with disabilities, and
their caregivers are coordinated and met across both formal and informal supports.
• CMS should assess the appropriate resources and incentives needed to modernize LTSS health
information systems so that technology can best be used to enhance services.
• CMS should use technology to ensure clear communication between beneficiaries, family
members, caregivers, and healthcare professionals and a wholistic approach to wellness
including caregiver needs.
• CMS should where appropriate incorporate technology use in implementing federal actions as
part of the RIASE strategy. For example, technology could be used to: better integrate and
improve awareness of caregiver services and supports across beneficiaries, providers, and
caregivers; build on efforts such as those within the GUIDE model to further integrate
caregivers into care teams; and better caregivers into treatment planning when appropriate.
Lastly, there are strong indications that community engagement improves business practices and
returns on investment. For example, Decimal Health – a leading physician led consultancy firm - has
found that when communities are engaged in digital health innovations, products move 60% faster
from development to market and have a 40% higher implementation success rate.17 This co-creation
method also reduces the risk of costly redesigns, misallocated resources, and helps increase savings,
innovation stability and scalability.18 Community Catalyst strongly encourage CMS to prioritize the
experiences and health of Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers in all aspects of technology
development and implementation within Medicare. We strongly discourage CMS from allowing
technology use which seeks to primarily prioritize profit of health industry over the preferences
and needs of beneficiaries.
17 Decimal Health (2025). The Power of Community.
18 Ibid.
Community Catalyst is a 501(c)(3) organization communitycatalyst.org

Community Catalyst appreciates your consideration of our comments. If you have any questions or
our team can be of assistance, please contact mbrand@communitycatalyst.org.
Sincerely,
Brandon G. Wilson, DrPH, MHA
Senior Director, Health Innovation, Public Health and Equity
Community Catalyst
Community Catalyst is a 501(c)(3) organization communitycatalyst.org