End Users Alliance
Roadmap
2024 - 2027
Those who use technology tools for care – health IT end users – face a growing set of federal mandates from
federal agencies over the next four years. While each rule addresses important objectives, understanding the
complete regulatory landscape highlights implementation challenges, areas of overlap, and even potential
conflict. The Health IT End Users Alliance created this roadmap to spark discussions about real-world impacts of
requirements and identify ways to lessen administrative burden on end users by better alignment and sequencing
of federal requirements.
The left side of the table is a list of the federal regulatory final rules in no specific order. The 21st Century Cures
Act and the ONC HTI-1 Final Rule are divided into specific subparts to demonstrate the different regulatory
requirements and various agency involvement.
The timeline represents 2024 to 2027. Each color corresponds to a different federal agency identified
by the key at the bottom of the page. Areas that are highlighted indicate future requirements end users
will be expected to comply with.
OCR CMS ONC TEFCA
Requirement 2024 2025 2026 2027
HIPAA Privacy Rule Update to Support
Reproductive Health Privacy
HIPAA Administrative Transactions Update
ONC 21st Century Cures Act Final Rule:
Information Blocking
ONC 21st Century Cures Act Final Rule:
TEFCA
CMS Interoperability Final Rule
No Surprises Act
Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS)
+Physician Fee Schedule (PFS)
Electronic Prior Auth. and Interoperability
Health Technology and Interoperability - 1
(HTI-1): CEHRT
Health Technology and Interoperability - 1
(HTI-1): DSI
Health Technology and Interoperability - 1
(HTI-1): Privacy

End User Concerns
As part of the roadmap process, the Alliance identified key concerns with implementing each of the regulations
identified. Each concern presents opportunities for the end user to share their on-the-ground perspectives to
facilitate more effective and efficient implementation of these requirements. These concerns include: regulations
that require the adoption and use of technology end users rely on their technology vendors for, different final rule
requirements that contradict each other, areas where multiple agencies must align requirements for end users to
implement them, rules with certain requirements that come into effect ahead of other regulatory requirements, and
requirements that lack a direct connection to improving patient care.
Indirect
Technology Multi-Agency Rule Out of Sequence
Requirement Connection
Dependent Jurisdiction Incongruency Implementation
to Care
HIPAA Privacy Rule Update to
Support Reproductive Health Privacy
HIPAA Administrative Transactions
Update
21st Century Cures Act Final Rule:
Information Blocking
Interoperability and Patient
Access Final Rule
No Surprises Act
Medicare Payment Rules
(IPPS, PFS)
Electronic Prior Auth. and
Interoperability
Health Technology and
Interoperability - 1 (HTI-1)
21st Century Cures Act Final Rule:
TEFCA
The Health IT End Users Alliance brings together health information
professionals, physicians, hospitals, and other front-line health care
providers and organizations that use health IT in the provision of care.
The Alliance seeks to advance end user perspectives in health IT policy
and standards development and provide a collective voice to move
beyond end user involvement to end user leadership.
Learn more about the Alliance at: www.hitenduser.org
© Copyright AHIMA. All Rights Reserved. www.hitenduser.org