June 13, 2025
Honorable Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
Secretary
US Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Ave. SW
Washington, DC 20407
RE: RIN 0938-AV68, Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
The Health IT End-Users Alliance (the Alliance) applauds the US Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), and the Assistant Secretary for
Technology Policy/ Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC) for
seeking public input on how CMS and ASTP/ONC can best lead infrastructure progress to cultivate the
health IT market, increase patient access to digital health tools, and expand the data available for all
healthcare stakeholders.
The Alliance brings together health information professionals, physicians, hospitals, and other front-line
healthcare providers and organizations that use health IT in the provision of care to ensure that policy and
standards development activities reflect the complex web of clinical and operational challenges facing
those who use technology tools for care. By working collaboratively across settings of care, the Alliance is
focused on advancing end-user perspectives in health IT policy and standards development to support
clinical care and operations.
In response to your health technology ecosystem RFI, we have attached our consensus statements on
real-world testing and artificial intelligence, as well as our 2024-2027 collaborative roadmap. These
documents illustrate the challenges end-users face in the health IT ecosystem and include a series of
policy recommendations on how best to improve existing and future health IT policies to realize the
opportunities associated with deploying technologies and standards that will minimize administrative
burden, reduce costs, create efficiencies, and result in better outcomes for patients. The locations of the
documents submitted for response consideration can be found at the links contained within the appendix
of this letter and attached.
We thank you again for the opportunity to provide our input on this important set of issues and welcome
the opportunity to share more about the Alliance and discuss our work further. If you would like to
schedule a follow up engagement, please contact American Healthcare Information Management
Association (AHIMA)’s Senior Director of Regulatory and International Affairs, Andrew Tomlinson, at
Andrew.tomlinson@ahima.org. We look forward to collaborating with CMS and ASTP/ONC on issues
relating to the health technology ecosystem throughout your tenure as Secretary as we seek to end the
nation’s chronic disease crisis by leveraging health technology tools and related technical standards.

Appendix:
• Document 1: Real-world Testing Consensus Statement1
• Document 2: Artificial Intelligence Consensus Statement2
• Document 3: Health IT End-users Alliance 2024-2027 Collaborative Roadmap3
1 https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/05/16/2025-08701/request-for-information-health-technology-
ecosystem
2 https://hitenduser.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Health-IT-End-Users-Alliance-Artificial-Intelligence-
Consensus-Statement_Final-Formatted.pdf
3 https://hitenduser.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/EndUsersAllianceRoadmap-Digital-FINAL.pdf