June 16, 2025
SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY AT REGULATIONS.GOV
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Re: CMS-0042-NC Request for Information re Digital Health Products for Medicare
Beneficiaries and the State of Data Interoperability and Broader Health Technology
Infrastructure
To Whom it May Concern:
On behalf of Apple Inc. (Apple), we thank the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
(CMS) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/Office of the National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) for the opportunity to comment
on the request for information (RFI) seeking input regarding the market of digital health
products for Medicare beneficiaries as well as the state of data interoperability and
broader health technology infrastructure (the RFI). At Apple, we believe individuals
should be empowered with meaningful access to their health information. Our health
and health and fitness features have been developed with two overarching principles: 1)
They are all subject to rigorous scientific validation processes, in collaboration with
medical community experts; 2) Our features put our users’ privacy at the center and
provide users with transparency and control, and the tools to protect their data.
I. APPLE IS AT THE FOREFRONT OF DIGITAL HEALTH ACCESS AND INNOVATION
A. Apple Health App & Health Records
The Health app is available on iPhone and iPad, and acts as a central and secure place
for users to view all of their health information. Users can now store over 150 different
types of health data from Apple Watch, iPhone, iPad, Vision Pro and connected third-
party apps and devices, in addition to available health records data from connected
institutions in the US, UK, and Canada. Our application programming interfaces (APIs)
are enabling third-party developers to create new solutions that promote healthy
lifestyles. There are now tens of thousands of apps on the App Store that use our
HealthKit API, so they can incorporate data users choose to share for the Health app to
offer innovative health and fitness experiences, with rigorous privacy and data
protocols. Advanced sensors and built-in features in Apple devices such as Apple
Watch give providers powerful insights into patient health and encourage patients to
lead healthier lives. With data such as activity, heart health, mobility, sleep, and more,
providers can get a more complete picture of patient health and can offer more
personalized care. There are four privacy principles that inform everything we do at
Page 1 of 4

Apple: data minimization, on-device processing, transparency and control, and security.
We built each of these four pillars into our Health features from the beginning.
Additional information on how the Health app and HealthKit protect user privacy is
available at this link: https://www.apple.com/privacy/docs/
Health_Privacy_White_Paper_May_2023.pdf
Our features and technologies also contribute to paving the way for users to control
their own health records. Within the Health app on iPhone and iPad users in the US,
Canada, and the UK can download their medical records from multiple participating
institutions and see them next to all of their other health information in the Health app.
Health Records is now available to patients with an iPhone or iPad at over 9,000
institutions, across over 30,000 locations. Health Records uses FHIR (Fast Healthcare
Interoperability Resources), a standard for transferring electronic medical records. In the
US, the 21st Century Cures Act requires that institutions allow patients to electronically
access their health records from their health institution and now requires they certify
they use publicly available FHIR APIs. FHIR APIs are already incorporated into the Health
app for the Health Records feature, so thousands more institutions will be eligible to be
listed in the Health app and those using supporting EHR vendors can be added
automatically over time.
We understand that many users appreciate having access to their health records from
multiple providers in one place. Regarding FHIR APIs, we believe it's important to
evaluate and test data quality and ensure accurate mapping of standardized
terminologies. We see significant value in an industry-led, ticket-based system for
reporting and tracking API issues that require resolution. Additionally, a centralized, up-
to-date directory of these endpoints would enable users to connect with multiple
providers where they've received care and download their health records more easily.
B. Mobile Drivers Licenses & IDs in Wallet
We are excited to see the RFI’s focus on strong digital identity solutions for verification
and authentication across health care use cases. Apple has worked to support the
issuance and use of standards-based digital identity credentials that enhance privacy.
In recent years, US States, the federal government, industry groups, and standards
organizations have been working increasingly to drive support for mobile driver’s
licenses (mDL) as a way to prove identity. More than 15 jurisdictions are live or in
deployment with standards-based mDL implementations. State-issued, standards-
based implementations of mDLs can provide a valuable solution for identity use cases
across the health care space.
Of note, to support and accelerate the work in the emerging mDL ecosystem, the
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE) at the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) has a program underway to build out reference
implementations and best practices for mDL deployments. Health care comprises one
of the initial key sets of use cases this program is focused on.
Page 2 of 4

Since 2022, Apple has enabled driver’s licenses and state IDs to be added to Apple
Wallet, which allows residents to seamlessly and securely add and present their IDs in
person and in apps using iPhone or Apple Watch — and starting later this year, Verify
with Wallet on the Web will offer users a way to seamlessly and securely share their ID
in Apple Wallet with select websites for identity verification. There is significant
momentum among states to support standards-based mobile driver's licenses with 10
jurisdictions issuing IDs to Apple Wallet today and others planned or in deployment.
Standards-Based Approach
Apple has designed the ID in Apple Wallet using relevant ISO standards, which sets
clear guidelines for the industry around protecting consumers’ privacy when presenting
an ID or driver’s license through a mobile device. For in person interactions, the identity
reader must adhere to ISO/IEC 18013-5.
For online use cases, Apple is supporting the W3C’s Digital Credentials API to enable
websites to request identity document information from Apple Wallet and participant
third party wallet apps installed on an iPhone. Apple follows the W3C Digital
Credentials API-based transmission mechanism defined in Annex C of ISO/IEC
18013-7:2025, offering users significant user experience and security benefits when
sharing their digital ID compared to alternative transmission mechanisms. The Webkit
for Safari implementation of the W3C Digital Credentials API and Annex C of ISO/IEC
18013-7:2025 includes additional browser-level protections against phishing and relay
attacks, and supports session persistence, enabling a seamless presentment flow
without requiring users to switch between apps. Furthermore, adopting a standards-
based approach ensures interoperability, allowing users to share their digital ID across
any browser and digital wallet implementation that implements the same standard.
We recommend support for ISO/IEC 18013-5 for in person interactions and ISO/IEC
18013-7:2025 (Annex C) as a protocol over the W3C Digital Credentials API for online
interactions to allow the presentation of mDLs and other mDOCs.
Privacy & Security
ID in Apple Wallet uses the privacy and security features that are built into Apple
devices to help protect a user’s identity and personal information. Once an ID is added
to Apple Wallet, the information is encrypted on a user’s device, so others — including
Apple — cannot access it unless a user chooses to present it. Further, Apple and the
state-issuing authority do not know when or to whom a user presents their driver’s
license or state ID. A user’s presentment history is encrypted and stored only on their
device, and Apple cannot see or access this information.
Additional information on the Security of IDs in Apple Wallet is available at this link:
https://support.apple.com/guide/security/security-of-ids-in-apple-wallet-
secb569bf393/web
Page 3 of 4

II. CONCLUSION
We support CMS and ASTP/ONC’s continued efforts to advance interoperability across
the healthcare system. We believe this progress is essential to enabling a future in
which users can access not only their clinical records but also schedule appointments
and learn about their coverage and care options. We would be supportive of a world in
which users can share patient generated data and self reported data like medications
back to their providers to close the loop on their health care. As we push forward in this
space, we remain committed to working with CMS and the broader community to
ensure that interoperability efforts reflect a thoughtful balance: protecting user privacy
while fostering an environment where developers can build innovative health solutions.
Apple appreciates CMS and ASTP/ONC’s attention to our response to the RFI. We look
forward to continued collaboration in building a health system that is more connected,
user-focused, and responsive to individual needs.
Regards,
Tim Powderly
Senior Director, Government Affairs, Americas
Apple
Page 4 of 4