 N.C. Health Information Exchange Authority Phone: 919 -754-6912 Mail Service Center 4101 Email: hiea@nc.gov Raleigh, NC 27699 -4101 Website: www.nchealthconnex.gov June 16, 2025 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology Department of Health and Human Services Attention: CMS -0042 -NC P.O. Box 8013 Baltimore, MD 21244 -8013 Re: RFI Response —Health Technology and the Health Ecosystem (Document Number: 2025 -08701) Dear ASTP/ONC : On behalf of the North Carolina Health Information Exchange Authority (NC HIEA), we appreciate the opportunity to respond to the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/ Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology’s (ONC) Request for Information (RFI) on the future of the health technology ecosystem. As the state -designated entity responsible for operating and overseeing North Carolina’s statewide health information exchange, NC HealthConnex, we offer our insights into how the federal government can best support an equitable, interoperable, and cost -effective national health information infrastructure —especially one that does not leave behind smaller and rural providers. Investments in Public Infrastructure: 15 Years and Tens of Millions in the Making North Carolina’s statewide HIE represents over 15 years of intentional planning, development, and public investment, with tens of millions of state and federal taxpayer dollars already spent to create a shared digital infrastructure. This infrastructure is essential not only for improving care coordination and public health reporting, but also for strengthening access to quality care in rural and underserved areas . NC HealthConnex has emerged as a vital public utility for health information exchange in North Carolina, particularly for the smaller and more rural providers who are often excluded or inadequately served by large proprietary EHR and HIE vendors. Unlike commercial vendors whose business models are often driven by scale and high -cost implementa tions, NC HealthConnex is built to be inclusive, affordable, and mission -driven —designed specifically to meet the interoperability needs of providers who would otherwise be left behind. 
 N.C. Health Information Exchange Authority Phone: 919 -754-6912 Mail Service Center 4101 Email: hiea@nc.gov Raleigh, NC 27699 -4101 Website: www.nchealthconnex.gov Supporting the Providers Most at Risk of Exclusion Many of the small and rural providers in our state operate on narrow margins, rely on legacy systems, and face resource constraints that make it difficult to interface with major platforms like Epic. These providers depend on NC HealthConnex as a cost -effective and trusted solution for sharing health information securely across organizational , vendor and geographical boundaries. Today, o ver 10,000 health care sites —including 440 Federally Qualified Health Center facilities , all local health departments across NC’s 100 counties , 35 free clinics and over 900 behavioral health facilities —depend on NC HealthConnex to share and access health data to provide optimal care to their patients . Without robust and sustained support for statewide HIEs like ours, these providers risk further isolation from the digital health ecosystem, undermining national goals like reducing duplicative care and driving down associated costs . Further , North Carolina’s larger hospital and health care systems —while perhaps rich in health data from commercial networks —rely upon NC HealthConnex data submissions by these smaller connected entities across the state to fill in their own critical health data gaps . Recommendations for Federal Action As ONC considers its future policy framework, we urge the agency to: 1. Recognize and reinforce the value of public HIE infrastructure, especially in service of rural and underserved regions, as a foundational component of an efficient national interoperability strategy. 2. Ensure federal funding streams and policy incentives prioritize inclusivity, so that providers without the resources to adopt commercial HIE solutions are not left behind. 3. Continue to align federal reporting and public health data exchange mandates with state HIE infrastructure, leveraging public investment rather than duplicating it with costly proprietary systems. 4. Reevaluate the pace and frequency of USCDI rollout to ensure EHRs and HIE s can comply and reap the benefits of a national standard. 5. Encourage stakeholders to use the Information Blocking Rule as a tool to broker conversations and broaden trusted exchange, rather than as a weapon against unintend ed infractions where technical or governance challenges are being worked through. 6. Promote fair and equitable access to networks like TEFCA, ensuring that smaller public HIEs have sustainable and meaningful participation pathways and can act as onramps for their connected communities who may not otherwise be able to participate . The future of the health technology ecosystem must be one where no provider is excluded because of their size, location, or inability to pay for a commercial solution . By reinforcing and expanding support for public HIEs like NC HealthConnex, ONC can help build a more resilient, inclusive, cost-efficient and effective national health information ecosystem. 
 N.C. Health Information Exchange Authority Phone: 919 -754-6912 Mail Service Center 4101 Email: hiea@nc.gov Raleigh, NC 27699 -4101 Website: www.nchealthconnex.gov Thank you for your continued leadership, and for the opportunity to provide our perspective. Sincerely, Sam Thompson Executive Director North Carolina Health Information Exchange Authority Sam.Thompson@nc.gov 984-484-4760 