 T: 847-217-3094 | timothy.blankshain @nielseniq.com niq.com © 2023 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All Rights Reserved. June 16, 2025 NielsenIQ response to RFI; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS -0042 -NC) Background NielsenIQ (NIQ) is the global leader in consumer product market measurement, founded in 1923 by Arthur C. Nielsen, and continually evolving to capture the Full View of consumer buying behavior . NIQ solutions include POS sales data and consumer panel data for both instore and online purchases of categories such as food, beverage, tobacco, alcohol, over -the-counter (OTC) medication, personal care and more. In addition, NIQ captures product attribution information for all items across the grocery store including nutrient, ingredient and marketing claims. With NIQ’s nationally representative consumer panel, CMS can expand current population health analytics by linking how patients eat, drink, smoke and self -medicate with current health conditions, while also predicting future health related outcomes. NIQ data has a proven track record with federal agencies including the US Food and Drug Administration, US Department of Agriculture, the Centers for Disease Control and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration for program and policy evaluation . Patient Access to Nutrition Information A key technology that can empower patients and improve health outcomes within APMs is access to granular nutrition and ingredient information of consumer products goods. Implementing personalized nutrition and wellness interventions for patients with chronic disease can increase the effectiveness of VBC, but patients and providers need access to a comprehensive dataset of food and beverage products available in grocery stores. NIQ’s Product Insights solution is a national database of all food and beverage items at retail with detailed nutrition, ingredient, marketing claims and derived product attributes. When paired with nutrition guidance from pro viders, this dataset can assist patients with meeting their dietary needs and help manage their chronic diseases to lower readmission rates. 
 T: 847-217-3094 | timothy.blankshain @nielseniq.com niq.com © 2023 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All Rights Reserved. Population Health Analytics As APM and VBC initiatives evolve, so do population health analytics. Being able to see the Full View of patient health journeys allows providers to better understand upstream health effects and provide care that truly reflects patient needs. By integrating consumer purchase data with existing health data, we can provide real -world insight into behaviors, needs and barriers that traditional upstream health data might miss. Consumer purchase behavior enables health systems to study the impact of lifestyle on chronic disease development and better care for patients within VBC programs. Just a few examples include • Evaluating diet changes pre and post diagnosis • Analyzing food and beverage consumption pre and post GLP -1 use • Effect of tobacco and alcohol consumption changes on chronic disease • Asses the frequency of self -medication of OTC drugs based on diagnosed health conditions To successfully implement this information within APMs, we recommend a partnership between NIQ and RTI. The disparate nature of vital health information creates a barrier to empowering patients to make informed decisions about their health and to giving providers the necessary information to optimize care. For three decades, RTI has provided implementation a nd monitoring support and evaluation services to CMS for nearly 30 different health care interventions for Medicare and/or Medicaid beneficiaries. In this role, RTI helps CMS implement Medicare payment policy and rapidly identify innovative health care int erventions’ successes and lessons learned to guide CMS policymaking for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. RTI’s highly -experienced economists, statisticians, health services researchers, and survey methodologists are skilled in using Medicare enrollment and claims data, Medicaid enrollment and claims data, intervention -specific program data, beneficiary and provider survey data, and qualitative data from providers and beneficiaries to set payment policy for value -based care programs in Medicare (e.g., Med icare Shared Savings Program), risk adjust Medicare payment, monitor provider performance, and beneficiary access to and use of health services. Because of its long history as a trusted analytics and policy support partner to CMS, RTI brings unparalleled k nowledge of how to use CMS data to answer priority research questions and help CMS develop and launch priority initiatives. 
 T: 847-217-3094 | timothy.blankshain @nielseniq.com niq.com © 2023 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All Rights Reserved. Concurrently, RTI has supported state health departments and federal health agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control, with surveillance and program and policy evaluation efforts to inform future and current p ublic health policy. NielsenIQ data on consumer product availability and household consumption patterns serves as a central resource to comprehensive program and policy evaluation. NielsenIQ hosts a nationally representative household panel that tracks con sumer purchase behavior of consumer goods both instore and online. Aligning purchases of food, beverage, tobacco, alcohol, personal care, and OTC medication – a modern form of population health analytics – with health claims data provides deeper insight in to upstream health effects. We propose triangulating consumer purchase data with clinical and claims data in APMs, to empower patients and providers with more comprehensive information when making decisions about health care. Together, these resources will enhance patient engagement, support identification of early warning signs of disease, enhance risk stratification models, and personalize outreach and care management programs. Sincerely, Tim Blankshain Director, Public Sector NielsenIQ 847-217-309 Timothy.blankshain@nielseniq.com 