 The Joint Commission Washington, DC Office 1099 14th St. NW, Suite 500 -B Washington, DC 20005 202-783-6655 June 16, 2025 Mehmet Oz, M.D., M.B.A. Administrator Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Thomas Keane, M .D., M.B.A. Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy National Coordinator for Health I T U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 330 C St SW , Floor 7 Washington, DC 20201 [Docket: CMS -0042- NC. Submitted electronically via regulations.gov] Dear Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane: The Joint Commission appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information (ONC) request for information, “Health Technology Ecosystem .” Founded in 1951, The Joint Commission’s mission is to enable and affirm the highest standards of healthcare quality and patient safety for all . An independent, not -for-profit organization with a global presence, The Joint Commission has programs that accredit or certify healthcare organizations and programs in the United States across the continuum of care, including most of the nation’s hospita ls. A variety of federal and state government regulatory bodies, including CMS , recognize and rely upon The Joint Commission’s findings for Medicare or licensure purposes. The Joint Commission is pleased to submit the following re sponses to questions relevant to quality measurement. II. Solicitation of Public Comments C. Providers 2. Data Exchange PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities of providers? A critical aspect of simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities for providers is making sure there is payer alignment on quality measures, which CMS has started across all its programs. In concordance with CMS, The Joint Commission and the National Quality Forum are working to align quality measures across using validated, consensus -based outcomes measures and measures sets. 
 Page 2 of 3 The Joint Commission Comments on t he Health T echnology Ecosystem This measure alignment work will initially focus on maternity care, hip and knee procedure, spine procedural care, and cardiovascular procedure care. Similar to CMS, the work will focus on outcome- focused m easures r ather t han p rocess measures . Utilizing outcomes m easures can provide an assessment inclusive of multiple c are processes w hile reflecting the most important “result ” to a patient – the out come of the episode driving them to seek care in the first pl ace. Also, outcomes- based m easures h ave the potential t o show whether c are delivered t o the patient is reducing the need for more complex care such as hospitalizations, emergency department visits, or other adverse events. T he Joint Commission and National Quality Forum welcome the opportunity to work with CMS on this measure alignment across all payers. As CMS moves toward the use of clinically-sourced quality measures rather than claim-sourced measures, a movement The Joint Commission and the National Quality Forum support, utilization of automation and AI- based tool s will be critical to s ort through clinical da ta, capture unstructured yet valuable clinical data, provide more real-time data, and to reduce the significant burden and cost on providers. A I tools ar e essential to he lp overcome the decades -long struggle to make use of the EHRs our country has investe d in so heavily in ways that promote the goals of improved patient outcomes, higher value care, lower burden and cost of the measurement enterprise. The Joint Commission and National Quality Forum are working on uses of AI to enable lower burden extraction of clinical data from EHRs for purposes of quality measurement. Also, the National Quality Forum has begun work to develop consensus-based recommendations on the expanded use of AI in quality measurement. CMS should also consider simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities by providing flexibility for healthcare organizations to implement new FHIR standards for use in electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQM) in its quality payment programs. The Joint Commission was an early adopter of eCQMs and has develop ed, implemented , and maintained a set of eCQMs for use in our accredited HCOs. FHIR standard adoption has helped reduce burden by minimizing manual effort s to package, send, download, and extract data. Despite the growing adoption of FHIR standards for exchanging clinical information, technical challenges sometimes arise among providers during early implementation of new standards. As CMS considers implementing new FHIR -based standards in eCQMs, it should consider allowing pilot testing or other incentives for early adopters so they can share helpful insights on reporting and allow for smooth implementation . E. T echnology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks 3. Technical Standards and Certification TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are its limitations? Wh ile USCDI has improved interoperability and exchange of standardized health data, further integration with USCDI+ use cases , such as quality measurement, would improve interoperability functions. While USCDI+ use cases may support domain -specific information, isolating certain data classes to one use case may limit the impact and create additional burdens. The Joint Commission supports the ability to capture specific, granular USCDI data elements in 
The Joint Commission Comments on the Health Technology Ecosystem Page 3 of 3 a clinical workflow that could be reused multiple times across domains, such as public health and maternal health . However, each USCDI+ domain includes a separate implementation guide and may define similar data elements differently across use cases, making it burdensome for providers to implement across domains. ONC/ASTP should consider creating a single, unified set of data elements incorporating all USCDI+ domains with one accompanying FHIR implementation guide. Consolidating data elements into one set w ill promote interoperability, reduce burden, and allow for more accurate and comprehensive digital quality measurement. Th e Joint Commission’s Additional Comments : Of interest to CMS ’ work on the Health Technology Ecosystem, The Joint Commission recently launched a Responsible Use of Health Data™ Certification. This certification provides a third - party validation of health care organizations’ responsible use of deidentified health data for secondary purposes, such as operational efficiencies, quality improvement, algorithm development, and AI tools. The certification is based on the Health Evolution Trust Framework 1, created in response to health care organization questions on whether best practices exist to safely handle patient data that falls outside Health In surance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) protections . The framework addresses six key elements: deidentification practices; data controls; permitted uses; patient trans parency; algorithm validation; and governance structures. The Joint Commission is pleased to answer any questions you may have regarding our comments. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my staff: Patrick Ross, Associate Director, Public Policy , at (202) 783-6655 or pross@jointcommission.org. Si ncerely, Kathryn E. Spates Executive Vice President, Public Policy & Government Relations 1 Accelerating Responsible Use of De -identified Data in Algorithm and Product Development, HEALTH EVOLUTION FORUM (Sept 22, 2023), https://www.healthevolution.com/innovation -and-discovery/trust -framework -deidentified-data/ 