 Artificial intelligence (AI), especially generative AI, is already a powerful tool in healthcare, offering amazing potential to responsibly enhance patient care by improving care outcomes and patient experiences, reducing healthcare provider burnout by simplifying administrative tasks, and helping to lower the total cost of care. One of the most helpful ways to see the value of AI in healthcare is to view the question through the lens of the “quadruple aim” framework. Built on the Institute for Healthcare Improvement’s “triple aim,” a widely accepted compass to optimize health sys tem performance, the quadruple aim focuses on four key areas where health systems need to be improved, across all of which AI is already providing , and will continue to provide , value: • Enhancing population health. • Improving patient experience, satisfaction, and health outcomes. • Augmenting clinician and healthcare team experience and satisfaction by reducing administrative burdens . • Lowering overall costs of healthcare. The health sector presents a key opportunity for the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) to support the President’s DOGE Agenda by modernizing safe and effective federal technology and software to enhance government efficiency and productivity. In an effort to address and appropriately manage increasing healthcare costs and provider burden , CHI offers the following use cases and recommended actions: Use Case /Area Rationale/Details Implementer Solutions Administrative Efficiency & Operational Workflow Optimization Federal health systems, including Medicare, the VA, and IHS, should leverage the potential of AI to streamline operational efficiencies and reduce provider burdens . Key use cases include: - Automating routine tasks ( e.g., data entry, appointment scheduling, billing ) - Streamlining contracting and acquisitions - Optimizing staffing /hiring - Document management HHS -wide (particularly CMS) ; DOD and VA Widely embrace AI tools and services to streamline health -related government operations, including for beneficiary interactions Clinical Research/Trials AI can accelerate clinical trials by identifying suitable candidates and analyzing outcomes in real time. AHRQ, HRSA, NIH Ramp up AI tools use in HHS research and study efforts 
2 Use Case /Area Rationale/Details Implementer Solutions Cloud adoption Use of cloud services v ersus agency owned and managed data centers can help agencies leverage state -of-the-art technology, cybersecurity tools and AI —all at lower costs. Agencies such as CMS have antiquated systems that inhibit their ability to innovate and integrate new data (e.g., into claims data systems). All HHS and Operating and Staff Divisions HHS should rapidly accelerate cloud adoption to enable use of state -of-the- art technologies and more effectively use taxpayer resources. Disease Prevention, Diagnosis, and Treatment The Medicare program currently pays for certain AI-enabled clinical software through the Physician Fee Schedule when an AI tool is used to augment a standard medical service, for example diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy using an AI - powered imaging analysis coded with CPT code 92229 . The AI payment is integrated into the cost of the primary medical service provided, not a separate AI -specific fee. Other AI - related codes are in Category III of the CPT system, Category III CPT codes are intended to be temporary until more data can be collected. As additional AI codes are developed, Medicare should consider methodologies to appropriately compensate for use of AI -enabled services within its payment systems . Key use cases may include: - Targeted interventions and support to prevent disease (e.g., analyzing genetic data to identify disease markers and potential therapies for patients at high risk of readmission, allowing for targeted post -discharge interventions) - Diagnosis assistance (analyzing symptoms, lab results, and imaging studies) - Personalized treatment plan based on historical outcomes and genetic profiles CMS and IHS; DOD and VA - Make overdue modernizations to key disease prevention programs (e.g., diabetes prevention) by fully leveraging AI tools and services - Modernize ways in which AI software is categorized and supported across Medicare payment rules, and provide unbundled support in Medicare for AI tools ( more than 500 of which have already been approved by the FDA) to improve Medicare beneficiaries’ experience and care - Modernize outdated Durable Medicare Equipment reimbursements to provide support for efficacious AI Drug Submissions FDA currently obtains data from product developers in paper files and PDFs, challenging the ability to conduct rolling product reviews and use innovative analytics. FDA should transition to leverage cloud -based submissions where data—not documents —are sent to the agency. FDA launched pilots on this topic, though has not accelerated its adoption. FDA FDA should publish the results of existing pilots and rapidly work with cloud service providers ( CSPs) to create solutions for regulated entities to enable access to data —not just documents —via cloud -based platforms. 
3 Use Case /Area Rationale/Details Implementer Solutions General Strategy to Promote the Use of Trustworthy AI A department -wide strategy for trustworthy healthcare AI would: - Fill regulatory gaps and ensure alignment with quality and safety goals. - Provide clear guidance to coordinate efforts across federal agencies and reduce oversight duplication. - Establish transparent standards that go beyond voluntary promises, reinforcing public trust and accountability. - Shape public policy beyond internal HHS use, guiding the ethical, responsible adoption of AI solutions. - Strengthen HHS’s leadership in AI governance, ultimately enhancing patient outcomes and overall healthcare efficiency. HHS -wide and across all Federal Departments - Form a multistakeholder advisory council that ensures diverse input from providers, developers, patients, and ethicists to guide policy and best practices - Advance unified data governance by establishing clear standards for data security, interoperabili ty, and bias mitigation - Provide AI education and resources for healthcare providers to encourage adoption. - Leverage the p ublic -private partnership framework to c ollaborate with providers, industry, research institutions, and government agencies to drive innovation - Implement transparent safety, quality, and ethical benchmarks, promoting accountability and continuous improvement 
4 Use Case /Area Rationale/Details Implementer Solutions Grants For federal grants, the receiving institution (e.g., a university) applies a pre -negotiated Facilities & Administration (F&A) rate to research grants as overhead. These F&A rates are as much as 70% on top of eligible direct costs of the grant. F&A charges are used to recover costs of doing business to the university, including utilities, maintenance and depreciation of buildings and equipment, and general administration. Cloud computing services are subject to F&A charges, but the purchase of hardware is no t. Application of F&A of up to 70% on cloud services inflates total grant budgets, in many cases reducing the amount of funding dedicated to the specific research project and increasing costs to the U.S. taxpayer. Discrepancies in cost treatment of hardwar e vs. cloud technologies creates an uneven choice for researchers and limits their ability to tap into state -of-the-art cloud technologies, including AI/ML and cybersecurity services. OMB (but affects NIH and all grants) OMB should clarify that all grants should treat the purchase of hardware and cloud services in the same manner by exempting both from F&A overhead rates. Patient Engagement Enhanced patient engagement and trust is key to both prevention and treatment of disease. Key use cases include: - AI virtual assistants/chatbots (answering preliminary non - clinical patient queries, provide medication reminders, and assist with pre -visit questionnaires) - Telehealth and remote monitoring enhancement to conduct virtual consultations more effectively CMS and IHS; DOD and VA AI tools already providing important efficiencies in beneficiary interactions, as well as in the context of various digital health modalities (telehealth, remote monitoring) should be appropriately supported and incentivized Population Health/ Disease Management AI capabilities are vital in identifying trends across different datasets to confront health issues and emergencies. Key use cases include: - Monitor ing and predict ing the spread of infectious diseases by analyzing data from various sources - Assist in r esource allocation (forecast the demand for beds, equipment, or medications, optimizing inventory management , etc.) CDC, CMS Maximize efficiency of population health management efforts across CDC and CMS using AI tools that can quickly and efficiently identify concerning health trends and crises (disease outbreaks, drug crises, etc.) 
5 Use Case /Area Rationale/Details Implementer Solutions Medical Education AI is being used successfully in the education and training of new medical professionals, providing medical educators with the tools to create smarter doctors with better bedside manners. NIH Universities should be incentivized to use AI to teach and examine medical students on their clinical knowledge and to improve their approach to patients, presenting students with AI - simulated patients and evaluating their performance with AI -assisted methods. Acronyms: AHRQ = Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality CDC = Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CMS = Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services DOD = Department of Defense FDA = Food and Drug Administration HHS = Department of Health and Human Services HRSA = Health Resources and Services Administration IHS = Indian Health Service NIH = National Institutes of Health OMB = Office of Management and Budget VA = Veterans Administration 