 June 16, 2025 Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Ave. Southwest Washington, DC 20201 RE: Comments of the Connected Health Initiative, Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem [CMS-0042-NC; RIN 0938 -AV68] The Connected Health Initiative1 represents stakeholders from across the healthcare community who share your goals of driving the development and adoption of digital health management and care navigation applications and strengthening interoperability and secure access to health data through open, standards -based technologies. We appreciate the opportunity to respond to your Request for Information2 regarding the market of digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries as well as the state of data interoperability and broader health technology infrastructure. We are committed to increasing beneficiary access to effective digital capabilities need ed to make informed health decisions and increasing data availability for all stakeholders contributing to health outcomes. Support for digital health innovations across the healthcare continuum are important and lifesaving for patients. A truly interoperable healthcare system facilitates patient engagement across a range of modalities with open application programming interfaces (APIs) that allow the safe and secure introduction of patient -generated health data (PGHD) into electronic health records (EHRs). Data stored in standardized and structured formats with interoperability facilitated by APIs provides analytics as well as near real -time alerting capabilities. The efficacy of precision medicine, population health, and cl inical decision support – all critical means for combatting chronic diseases – is dependent in large part on the availability of data. We emphasize the linkage of ensuring interoperability to the Administration’s priorities described in the RFI, including leveraging the tremendous potential of artificial intelligence (AI). Many AI use cases, ranging from solving administrative/backend eff iciencies to supporting clinical decisions, have already begun to emerge as necessary to advancing the Quadruple Aim. Bold policies will be needed if AI is to positively transform the American healthcare system. CHI provides detailed answers to a wide range of questions posed in the RFI. Key themes and recommendations we make include: • HHS should improve access, usability, and trust in digital health products through expanded use of secure and standardized APIs for real-time data sharing , supporting adoption by payers and providers to improve care coordination and empower patients . 1 www.connectedhi.com . 2 90 FR 21034. 
2 • HHS should take n umerous concrete steps across the department to improve access to effective digital capabilities and increas e data availability for all stakeholders contributing to health outcomes . In the most immediate, the Department of Health and Human Services should take steps to end information blocking practices that are actively harming patients , with a focus on health IT developers who view information blocking as a competitive advantage. • HHS should take overdue steps to bring the power of digital health tools, including AI, into care through overdue reforms to payment an d incentive pol icies. Needed steps include revising CMS’ practice expense methodology to better support Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) and better integrate telehealth, remote monitoring, and AI into Medicare services; and focus on outcome -based approaches in the Quality Payment Program in welcoming the use of digital health tools. HHS should also align evidentiary standards for clinical evidence across the agency to streamline access to innovative AI - enabled tools and ensure consistent evaluation for safety, efficacy, and real -world impact. • HHS should act rapidly to realize the potential of artificial intelligence (AI) which will improve healthcare, prevent hospitalizations, reduce complications, and improve patient engagement. CHI has worked to proactively address health AI governance and policy issues based on consensus views that span the healthcare sector, from technology developers to providers to patients, and urge for alignment with CHI’s Health AI Policy Principles ; CHI recommendations on a dvancing transparency for AI in the healthcare ecosystem ; CHI’s AI Roles and Interdependencies Framework ; and CHI’s recommendations to the Department on Government Efficiency on ways to use AI to improve healthcare governance efficiency . • HHS should focus on fully leveraging digital health tools in achieving value-based ca re goals. Value-based care goals simpl y cannot be accomplished without embracing the efficiencies digital health tools offer given their demonstrated ability to advance the Quadruple Aim . • HHS should take proactive steps to combat the growing impact of standard essential patent (SEP) licensor abuses on the digital healthcare sector , ensuring that standards - based abuses by SEP holders do not undermine the Administration’s goal of creating a competitive and open healthcare technology ecosystem . • HHS should e nhance accessibility and digital literacy by engag ing in educational support and community outreach , especially among the patient community . HHS’ role, in partnership with technology developers, providers, and paye rs, is critical in supporting the responsible up take of digital health tools across the country. Across all of our recommended actions, coord ination across HHS, and the federal government and states, will be critical to accomplishing meaningful improvements to the U .S. health technology ecosystem. 
3 We again express our support for the Administration’s commitment to increasing beneficiary access to effective digital capabilities needed to make informed health decisions, and increasing data availability for all stakeholders contributing to health outcomes . Our community welcomes the opportunity to meet with you to discuss our shared views. Sincerely, Brian Scarpelli Executive Director Chapin Gregor Policy Counsel Connected Health Initiative 1401 K St NW Suite 501 Washington, DC 20005 CC: Dr. Thomas Keane, Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, National Coordinator for Health Information Technology Dr. Mehmet Oz, Administrator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Dr. Jay Bhattacharya, Director, National Institutes of Health Christi Grimm, Inspector General, Office of Inspector General Amy Gleason, Administrator, United States DOGE Service 