CHI Health AI Roles &
Interdependency Framework

Overview
Artificial Intelligence (AI), especially generative AI, is already a powerful tool in healthcare, offering amazing potential to upgrade patient
care by improving care outcomes and patient experiences, reducing healthcare provider burnout by simplifying administrative tasks, and
helping to lower the total cost of care. One of the most helpful ways to see the value of AI in healthcare is to view the question through
the lens of the ŌĆ£quadruple aimŌĆØ framework. Built on the Institute for Healthcare ImprovementŌĆÖs ŌĆ£triple aim,ŌĆØ a widely accepted compass
to optimize health system performance, the quadruple aim focuses on four key areas where health systems need to be improved, all of
which AI is already, and will continue to, provide value across:
ŌĆó Enhancing population health.
ŌĆó Improving patient experience, satisfaction, and health outcomes.
ŌĆó Augmenting clinician and healthcare team experience and satisfaction.
ŌĆó Lowering overall costs of healthcare.
CHI has explored the ways in which AI is supporting each of the four aims of the quadruple aim in CHIŌĆÖs paper, Why Does Healthcare
Need AI?
But this promising technology is not infallible, and as healthcare organizations seek opportunities to use AI, stakeholders are facing
important questions about how various risks or limitations should be handled in the development, distribution, deployment, and end
use chain. Many organizations involved in the creation or application of healthcare AI have started to develop Responsible AI programs
aimed at managing these risks or limitations within their organization. But as we have learned from other new technologies in the past,
stakeholders can benefit from a clear discussion around all the safety measures and other actions that are needed, and how those
actions might be applied at different steps from creation to the operation of the tool by the end user. This discussion will help various
stakeholders better determine accountability for responsible AI best practices across this chain of stakeholders.
2

CHI urges all stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem that are developing and using AI to align
with CHIŌĆÖs consensus health AI principles, which recognize the shared responsibility for AI safety,
efficacy, and transparency. CHI supports (1) leveraging a risk-based approach to AI harm
mitigation where the level of review, assurance, and oversight is proportionate to potential harms
and (2) those in the value chain with the ability to minimize risks based on their knowledge and
ability, and having appropriate responsibilities and incentives to do so.
Further, managing AI/Machine Learning (ML) risks will be more challenging for small to medium-sized organizations, depending on
their capabilities and resources. Building on these general health AI principles, CHI proposes clear definitions of stakeholders across
the healthcare AI value chain, from development to distribution, deployment, and end use. Then, CHI suggests roles for supporting
safety, ethical use, and fairness for each of these important stakeholder groups that are intended to illuminate the interdependencies
between these actors, thus advancing the shared responsibility concept. These roles and interdependencies are also mapped to the
Functions defined in the National Institute of Standards and TechnologyŌĆÖs (NISTŌĆÖs) AI Risk Management Framework (RMF).
3

Patient Groups/
Patient Users
1
Providers/ Clinicians &
Solution Users
Administrative Users
Deploying
2 Organization
Solutions/App
Developers &
Deployers Digital Health Payers
Solution Developer (CMS, Private)
3
Health AI Platform
AI/ML Developers Developer
AI Platform Developer
Note: Depending on the use
case, some of the roles in the
healthcare AI/ML value chain
may be occupied by the same Foundation Model
Developer
party; in other scenarios, some
roles may not be occupied.
4

NIST AI RMF
Stakeholder Group Defini’┐Įon Roles
Actor Tasks
AI/ML Developers Someone who designs, codes, ŌĆó Informing deployers and users of data requirements/defini’┐Įons, intended AI Deployment; Opera’┐Įon and
researches, or produces an AI/ML use cases/popula’┐Įons and applica’┐Įons (e.g., disclosing sufficient detail Monitoring; Test, Evalua’┐Įon,
system or pla’┐Įorm for internal use or allowing providers to determine when an AI-enabled tool should Verifica’┐Įon, and Valida’┐Įon
for use by a third party. reasonably apply to the individual they are trea’┐Įng), including whether the (TEVV); Human Factors;
AI/ML tools are intended to augment human work versus automate Domain Expert; AI Impact
See below for defined Subgroups of workflows, and status of/compliance with all applicable legal and Assessment; Governance and
this Stakeholder Group along with regulatory requirements. Oversight
recommenda’┐Įons specific to that ŌĆó Priori’┐Įzing safety, efficaciousness, transparency, and data privacy and
Subgroup. security from the earliest stages of design, leveraging (and, where
appropriate upda’┐Įng) exis’┐Įng medical AI/ML guidelines on research and
ethics, leading standards, and other resources as appropriate.
ŌĆó Employing algorithms that produce repeatable results and, when feasible,
are auditable, and make decisions that (when applied to medical care) are
clinically validated, fostering efficacy through con’┐Įnuous monitoring.
ŌĆó U’┐Įlizing risk management approaches that scale to the poten’┐Įal likely
harms posed in intended use scenarios to support safety, protect privacy
and security, avoid harmful outcomes due to bias, etc.
ŌĆó Providing informa’┐Įon that enables those further down the value chain can
assess the quality, performance, and u’┐Įlity of AI/ML tools.
ŌĆó Aligning with relevant ethical obliga’┐Įons and interna’┐Įonal conven’┐Įons on
human rights and suppor’┐Įng the development of new ethical guidelines to
address emerging issues as needed.
5

Stakeholder
Defini’┐Įon Roles
SubGroup
Founda’┐Įon Someone who creates or modifies large Building on the cross-AI/ML Developer roles noted above:
Model Developer and generalizable machine learning ŌĆó Assessing what bias and safety issues might be present in its Founda’┐Įon Model, and documen’┐Įng
models that can be used/adapted for steps taken to mi’┐Įgate those issues in its Transparency Documenta’┐Įon (e.g., Transparency Notes,
various downstream tasks and applica- System Cards and product documenta’┐Įon).
’┐Įons, such as natural language process- ŌĆó Providing clear guidance on (1) how to use and adapt its Founda’┐Įon Model for various foreseeable
ing, computer vision, or so’┐Įware downstream tasks and applica’┐Įons, and (2) what limita’┐Įons or risks may arise from doing so based
development. on challenges discovered during tes’┐Įng and deployment.
AI Pla’┐Įorm Someone who leverages exis’┐Įng founda- Building on the cross-AI/ML Developer roles noted above:
Developer ’┐Įon models and builds an industry-agnos- ŌĆó Tes’┐Įng for, iden’┐Įfying, and mi’┐Įga’┐Įng bias and safety issues that may arise from using or modifying
’┐Įc pla’┐Įorm that enables other developers exis’┐Įng founda’┐Įon models for its AI Pla’┐Įorm, and documen’┐Įng these issues and steps taken to
to access, customize, and deploy these address them in its transparency documenta’┐Įon (e.g., transparency notes, system cards and product
models for various use cases and ŌĆó documenta’┐Įon).
applica’┐Įons, such as natural language
processing, computer vision, and/or
so’┐Įware development.
Health AI Pla’┐Įorm Someone who creates or uses AI-powered Building on the cross-AI/ML Developer roles noted above:
Developer pla’┐Įorms that are tailored for the ŌĆó Mee’┐Įng specific requirements and standards of the healthcare domain, such as accuracy, efficacy,
healthcare domain, such as administra’┐Įve explainability, and compliance with regula’┐Įons.
efficiency, diagnos’┐Įcs, therapeu’┐Įcs, or ŌĆó Tes’┐Įng for, iden’┐Įfying, and mi’┐Įga’┐Įng any bias and safety issues that may affect the health outcomes
research. These pla’┐Įorms may leverage of pa’┐Įents or the performance of clinicians using the Health AI Pla’┐Įorm, and documen’┐Įng these
founda’┐Įon models (or other types of issues and the steps it has taken to address them in its transparency documenta’┐Įon (e.g.,
machine learning models or solu’┐Įons), transparency notes, system cards and product documenta’┐Įon).
such as AI pla’┐Įorms, that are suitable for
specific healthcare problems and data
sources.
Digital Health Someone who creates complete digital Building on the cross-AI/ML Developer roles noted above:
tools and technologies to improve health ŌĆó Specifying appropriate uses for its digital health solu’┐Įon to avoid amplifying bias or safety issues that
Solu’┐Įon Developer
and healthcare outcomes, such as may exist in the underlying founda’┐Įon models, AI pla’┐Įorms, or health AI pla’┐Įorms.
providing diagnos’┐Įc and administra’┐Įve ŌĆó Designing user interfaces to enable an end user to safely and effec’┐Įvely act upon the output of the
solu’┐Įons for clinicians, pa’┐Įents, and tool, such as providing explana’┐Įons, feedback mechanisms, or human oversight op’┐Įons, providing
healthcare organiza’┐Įons. They may build clear documenta’┐Įon to Deploying Organiza’┐Įons and Users to help them avoid bias and safety issues.
digital health solu’┐Įons with both health
AI pla’┐Įorms, which are specialized for the
health care domain, and AI pla’┐Įorms,
which are more general and adaptable for
various use cases and applica’┐Įons.
6

NIST AI RMF
Stakeholder Group Defini’┐Įon Roles
Actor Tasks
Deploying Someone who is a healthcare Respecting that managing AI/ML risks will be more challenging for small to Assessment; Procurement;
Organiza’┐Įon providers and health care payors that medium-sized organizations depending on their capabilities and resources: Governance and Oversight
(Healthcare Provider and is deploying solu’┐Įons built by ŌĆó Adop’┐Įng AI/ML Developer instruc’┐Įons for use, specifying appropriate uses
or Payor) Digital Health Solu’┐Įon Developers. for Users through governance policies to avoid bias and safety issues that
They may also have their own internal may exist in the underlying founda’┐Įon models, AI pla’┐Įorms, or health AI
IT staff that use health AI pla’┐Įorms or pla’┐Įorms.
general AI pla’┐Įorms to develop their ŌĆó Developing and leveraging digital health solu’┐Įons that augment efficiencies
own custom digital health solu’┐Įons. in coverage and payment automa’┐Įon, facilitate administra’┐Įve simplifica-
’┐Įon/reduce workflow burdens, and are fit for purpose.
ŌĆó Se’┐Įng organiza’┐Įon policy/designing workflows to reduce the likelihood
that a User will act upon the output of the tool in a way that would cause
fairness/bias or safety issues (tailored explana’┐Įons, feedback mechanisms,
and/or human oversight op’┐Įons).
ŌĆó Developing and organiza’┐Įonal guidance on how the digital health solu’┐Įon
should and should not be used.
ŌĆó Crea’┐Įng risk-based, tailored communica’┐Įons and engagement plans to
enable easily understood explains to pa’┐Įents about how the digital health
solu’┐Įon was developed, its performance and maintenance, and how it
aligns with the latest best prac’┐Įces and regulatory requirements.
Provider/Clinician Someone who directly interacts with Respecting that managing AI/ML risks will be more challenging for small to AI Deployment; Opera’┐Įon and
Users and or benefits from the digital health medium-sized organizations depending on their capabilities and resources: Monitoring; Domain Expert; AI
Administra’┐Įve Users solu’┐Įons that are built by Digital ŌĆó Taking required training and incorpora’┐Įng employer guidance about use of Impact Assessment;
Health Solu’┐Įon Developers or by the AI/ML digital health solu’┐Įons. Procurement; Governance and
internal IT staff of the Deploying ŌĆó Documen’┐Įng (through automated processes or otherwise) whether AI is Oversight
Organiza’┐Įon. They may include being used in medical records and report any issues or feedback to the
clinicians, such as doctors, nurses, or developer, such as errors, vulnerabili’┐Įes, biases, or harms (where AI/MLŌĆÖs
pharmacists, and administra’┐Įve staff, use is known by the User).
such as billing, claims, or customer ŌĆó Ensuring there is appropriate clinician review and review of the output or
service personnel, in the provider and recommenda’┐Įons from each digital health solu’┐Įon prior to ac’┐Įng on it
payor organiza’┐Įons. (where AI/MLŌĆÖs use is known by the User).
7

NIST AI RMF
Stakeholder Group Defini’┐Įon Roles
Actor Tasks
Payer Users Someone that pays for the cost of ŌĆó Leveraging AI/ML systems that improve efficiencies in coverage and AI Deployment; Opera’┐Įon and
(Centers for Medicare healthcare services administered by a payment automa’┐Įon, facilitate administra’┐Įve simplifica’┐Įon, and reduce Monitoring; Domain Expert; AI
and Medicaid Services healthcare provider. provider workflow burdens. Impact Assessment;
[CMS], State Medicaid, ŌĆó Aligning with medical AI/ML defini’┐Įons, present-day and future AI/ML Procurement; Governance and
Private) solu’┐Įons, the future of AI/ML medical coding changes and trends. Oversight
ŌĆó Developing support mechanisms for the use of AI/ML by providers based
on clinical valida’┐Įon, aligning with clinical decision-making processes
familiar to providers, and high-quality clinical evidence.
ŌĆó Assuring that AI/ML systems allow for the individualized assessment of
specific medical and social circumstances and provider flexibility to override
automated decisions, ensuring that use of AI/ML does not improperly
reduce or withhold care, or overrides the providerŌĆÖs clinical judgement.
ŌĆó Disclosing informa’┐Įon about training and reference data to demonstrate
that AI/ML systems do not create or exacerbate inequi’┐Įes and that
protec’┐Įons are in place to mi’┐Įgate bias.
ŌĆó Developing and prolifera’┐Įng easy to understand resources for beneficiaries
and their providers that capture how and when AI/ML is being used, what
informa’┐Įon it is leveraging, and what it means to pa’┐Įents.
Pa’┐Įent Groups/ Someone who uses digital tools and ŌĆó Developing and prolifera’┐Įng easy to understand resources that capture Human Factors
Pa’┐Įent Users technologies that are built by Digital how AI/ML is being used and what it means to pa’┐Įents/pa’┐Įent groups,
Health Solu’┐Įon Developers or including explana’┐Įons on the purpose and limita’┐Įons of the digital health
experiences their use in treatment. solu’┐Įons that they use or benefit from (e.g., diagnos’┐Įc, therapeu’┐Įc,
administra’┐Įve).
ŌĆó Raising awareness of pa’┐ĮentsŌĆÖ rights and choices when using digital health
solu’┐Įons, such as consent, access, correc’┐Įon, or dele’┐Įon of their personal
data.
Standard-Se’┐Įng An organiza’┐Įon whose primary ŌĆó Developing and promo’┐Įng adop’┐Įon of interna’┐Įonal voluntary/non- Human Factors; Domain
Organiza’┐Įons func’┐Įon is developing, coordina’┐Įng, regulatory consensus standardized approaches and resources to steward a Expert; AI Impact Assessment;
promulga’┐Įng, revising, amending, shared responsibility approach to AI. Governance and Oversight
reissuing, interpre’┐Įng, or otherwise
contribu’┐Įng to the usefulness of
technical standards to those who
employ them.
8

NISNTIS ATI ARIM RFM F
Stakeholder Group Defini’┐Įon Roles
AcAtocrt oTra sTkassks
Cer’┐Įfica’┐Įon Bodies A cer’┐Įfica’┐Įon body is a third-party ŌĆó Crea’┐Įng and making available transparent and reliable processes for the Test, Evalua’┐Įon, Verifica’┐Įon,
& Test Beds organiza’┐Įon that assures the assurance of conformity to voluntary AI standards. and Valida’┐Įon (TEVV); Human
conformity of a product, process or ŌĆó Crea’┐Įng and making available voluntary sandbox environments to help Factors; Domain Expert; AI
service to specified requirements. evaluate the usability and performance of AI/ML-based high-performance Impact Assessment;
compu’┐Įng applica’┐Įons to advance the understanding of how reliable and Governance and Oversight
A test bed is a pla’┐Įorm for conduc’┐Įng efficacious AI, and to provide an appropriate assurance of reliability and
rigorous, transparent, and replicable efficacy.
tes’┐Įng of scien’┐Įfic theories,
compu’┐Įng tools, and new
technologies to a standard.
Accredi’┐Įng and Accredi’┐Įng and licensing bodies are ŌĆó Based on clinical needs and exper’┐Įse, developing and se’┐Įng the medical Test, Evalua’┐Įon, Verifica’┐Įon,
Licensing Bodies, governing authori’┐Įes that establish standard of care and ethical guidelines to address emerging issues with the and Valida’┐Įon (TEVV); Human
and Medical the suitability of any par’┐Įcipa’┐Įng use of AI/ML in healthcare needed to advance the quadruple aim. Factors; Domain Expert; AI
Specialty Socie’┐Įes cer’┐Įfica’┐Įon body. Notably, state-level ŌĆó Iden’┐Įfying the most appropriate uses of AI-enabled technologies and Impact Assessment;
and Boards board serve this purpose for developing and dissemina’┐Įng guidance and educa’┐Įon on the responsible Governance and Oversight
physicians, nurses, and other clinicians deployment of AI/ML in healthcare, both generally and for specialty-specific
to standards set by each state. uses.
Medical specialty socie’┐Įes are
organiza’┐Įons for physicians, research
and clinical scien’┐Įsts who are ac’┐Įvely
involved in the study of a par’┐Įcular
specialty.
Academic and Ter’┐Įary educa’┐Įonal ins’┐Įtu’┐Įons, ŌĆó Developing and teaching curriculum that will advance understanding of and Human Factors; Domain
Medical professional schools, or forms a part ability to use healthcare AI/ML solu’┐Įons responsibly, which should be Expert; AI Impact Assessment
Educa’┐Įon of such ins’┐Įtu’┐Įons, that teach assisted by inclusion of non-clinicians such as data scien’┐Įsts and engineers
Ins’┐Įtu’┐Įons medicine and awards a professional as instructors.
degree for physicians or other ŌĆó Developing curriculum to advance the understanding of data science
clinicians. research to help inform ethical bodies (e.g., Ins’┐Įtu’┐Įonal Review Boards
that are reviewing protocols of clinical trials of AI/ML-enabled medical
devices).
9