ACT Response to CMS Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
June 12, 2025
Introduction
This response to the CMS Health Technology Ecosystem RFI (CMS-0042-NC) is from the Accelerating
Care Transformation (ACT) Initiative. ACT is a stakeholder driven effort that builds on over 20 years of
interconnected work in the public and private sectors to improve care delivery processes and outcomes.
Attachment 2 is a brief ACT overview and Attachment 3 is a slide deck with additional information about
ACT background, current activities, and collaboration opportunities.
ACT efforts are strongly aligned with the drivers and opportunities outlined in the RFI. For example,
ensuring that health technology supported by people motivators leads to better care processes, resulting in
desirable outcomes at the individual and population level within a national patient-centric learning health
system (LHS). ACT supports workflow reengineering needed to achieve these goals in ways can leverage
the care transformation building blocks addressed in the RFI, including:
• health technology – e.g., trusted exchange/TEFCA, HIEs, EHRs, appropriately shared and
interoperable point of care data and standards-based clinical decision support (CDS) applications
and standards such as CDS Hooks
• people motivators – e.g., ACOs, MSSP, VBC, APMs
• better care processes – e.g., empowered patients making informed decisions and being supported
efficiently by care teams in effective acute and chronic disease prevention / management.
ACT is executing on HHS-commissioned care transformation / LHS roadmaps for achieving a shared future
vision wherein a robust health technology ecosystem broadly supports LHSs in improving health outcomes
and patient / care team experience while reducing costs (attachment 3, slide 8). A core engine for ACT
efforts is proven, broadly applicable, collaborative approaches to reengineer healthcare-related workflow
and information flow (attachment 3, slides 12-24). Many of the specific RFI questions involve supporting
workflow reengineering so that desired healthcare processes and outcomes can be achieved. Several
questions also highlight related opportunities for enhanced cross-stakeholder collaboration that addresses
barriers to achieving national health technology-enabled health and healthcare goals.
RFI Questions Addressed
Examples of these workflow reengineering-related RFI questions - and opportunities for enhanced
collaboration to address them - are copied below.
• PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in these
digital health products?
• PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas, to
leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for their patients?
• PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization of the
most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality measurement
reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these obstacles be mitigated?
• PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients and caregivers
that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate barriers to competition
among providers or both?
• PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality, timely, and
comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital product ecosystem? How
can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be mitigated for providers? Are there

ways that workflows or metrics that providers are already motivated to optimize for that could be
reused for, or combined with, efforts needed to support interoperability?
• PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities
of providers?
• PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities of
providers?
• TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate
developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers?
• VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) or
participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital health management
and care navigation products more often and more effectively with their patients? What are the
current obstacles preventing broader digital product adoption for patients in ACOs?
• VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence, population health
analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality measurement, and patient
engagement be better integrated into APM requirements?
• VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care arrangements? a. Examples
(not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event notification, data
extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement, access to claims data, attribution and
patient ID matching, remote device interoperability, or other patient empowerment tools.
• VB-8. How can other HHS policies supplement CEHRT requirements to better optimize the use of
digital health products in APMs?
ACT Approaches to Addressing these RFI Questions (slide numbers refer to Attachment 3)
The ACT framework for care transformation and workflow reengineering (slide 17) – and rich ACT
resources leveraging this framework (slides 11-27) – helps patients, care teams, health technology
suppliers, federal agencies and other key stakeholders develop a shared vision for how health technology
used in clinical workflow and patient life flow (see Attachment 4, pages: 6-11) can make health and
healthcare decisions and actions more efficient and effective. For example, the framework can be applied
to any improvement target, includes best practice care transformation ‘building blocks,’ and invites
synergies in improvement efforts across targets and organizations (slides 17-24). ACT workflow
reengineering methods and tools related to this framework (e.g., guidance and resources for improving
outcomes, Workflow Reengineering Worksheets and Change Packages, and Collaboration Whiteboards;
slides 11-27, 47) are a proven approach to address the people and process dimensions of health
technology-enabled workflow reengineering in ways that improve care processes and achieve desired
outcomes.
ACT provides mechanisms that bring together diverse stakeholders to accelerate innovation and break
down silos that impede more rapid progress toward better outcomes and faster learning. These include:
• the ACT Steering Committee and Collaborator Network (see slide 10, including link to synergy
cultivation spreadsheet)
• Pain/Opioid LHS Learning Community (POLLC – slide 27)
• Transformation Initiative Catalog (slide 47) and Collaboration Whiteboards (slide 22), and
• Partner support/collaboration activities (slides 16, 24-27).
For example, the CMS-supported POLLC brought together diverse stakeholders to collaboratively
accelerate care transformation for this target in participating health systems, health departments, and other
organizations. POLLC produced important benefits including generating a powerful, broadly available new
EHR tool to identify and close care gaps related to pain management and opioid use. The ACT Steering
Committee (slide 10) meets weekly, and agenda items include cross-fertilizing efforts among this group
while also cultivating synergies among the broader, growing group of ACT collaborators. A leading,

evolving, case study of ACT support in action is the health system Quality Poster (slide 24) that outlines an
initiative – driven by ACT methods, tools, and collaborations and led by an ACT Steering Committee
member – to improve its clinical and business performance. Reviewers from The Joint Commission were so
impressed by this approach during their recent site visit that they will be sharing this poster on their website
as an exemplary model for care transformation.
These ACT-led cross-fertilization activities begin executing the previously unaddressed core action item
called for in the HHS-commissioned Roadmap for National Action on CDS (presented to the HHS Secretary
in 2006) and in the AHRQ-funded national care transformation / LHS roadmap delivered in 2021 (slides 8,
37-42).
In addition to providing frameworks, methods, tools, and collaborations (slides 11-27) to address these RFI
questions individually as noted above, ACT can also help ensure that evolving answers and approaches
HHS pursues are coordinated in a manner that successfully drives progress toward overarching, shared
goals of improving care and outcomes (e.g., through VBC/APMs) while accelerating learning (e.g., see
synergy cultivation link, slide 10).
Conclusion
This RFI seeks stakeholder input to help CMS and ASTP/ONC “build on the existing policy framework to
drive large-scale adoption of health management and care navigation applications, reduce barriers to data
access and exchange, realize the potential of recent innovations in healthcare that promote better health
outcomes, and accelerate progress towards a patient-centric learning health system.”
Formed in November 2023, the Accelerating Care Transformation (ACT) initiative builds on 20 years of
successful collaborative work toward these same goals involving HHS (including CMS, ONC, and many
other HHS agencies), VA, and many private stakeholders. ACT provides proven frameworks, methods,
tools, and collaborations that can be applied to addressing – individually and collectively - many of the
challenges and opportunities identified in the RFI. For example, improving patient-centered workflows and
outcomes (e.g., population health, patient/care team experience, costs) within and across targets and
organizations, surfacing and disseminating best practices and tools, breaking down silos and building
cross-stakeholder consensus, and supporting standards-based exchange and use of computable/
interoperable data, evidence, and information management tools. We would be happy to answer questions
and further cultivate these opportunities.
Jerome A. Osheroff, MD, FACP, FACMI for the ACT Steering Committee1
1 ACT Steering Committee Members listed on the ACT home page here: https://www.tmitconsulting.com/act-initiative