Accelerating Care Transformation (ACT) Initiative:
Helping Organizations Achieve Strategic Goals
ACT provides a proven approach to reengineering healthcare processes, using relevant tools
and methods with support from key collaborators, to help organizations achieve clinical and
business goals.
Problem Statement
● Urgent challenges: Healthcare stakeholders – including patients, care teams, health
systems, and others – are facing pressing needs to improve health outcomes, care
quality and equity, patient / care team experience, and finances.
● Care delivery processes: A core driver for these challenges is that care delivery
processes are often inefficient and ineffective in achieving goals for patients and other
stakeholders. Process complexity and variation make it difficult to improve care
processes at scale.
● Siloed efforts: Healthcare clinical and business outcomes are driven by complex
relationships among diverse and interdependent stakeholders – including patients, care
teams, health systems, payers, regulators, and vendors. Efforts to improve outcomes
are typically siloed within and across organizations, impeding progress and benefits.
ACT Approach and Offerings
The core ACT engine for supporting care transformation and the development of Learning
Health Systems (LHSs) and High Reliability Organizations (HROs) is a proven collaborative
method, framework, and toolset for reengineering healthcare workflows and measurably
improving outcomes. These leverage open approaches, emphasizing frontline staff
engagement, developed and applied by 100s of people over the past 2 decades (see slides 11-
20 in the ACT Collaboration Outreach deck).
● Workflow Reengineering Worksheets and methods: These provide a structured
approach for analyzing and improving workflows and associated information flows. They
help organizations address key questions: "What is best practice?", "What is happening
now in our organization?", and "What changes can we make to improve outcomes?"
● A Reengineering Framework: The worksheets are based on an ACT framework that
organizations can use to identify opportunities to improve decisions and actions and
achieve intended outcomes. Using a common framework fosters care transformation
synergies within an organization and across organizations (see figure below).
● Initiative Charter Template: Using this structured initiative overview frames and
augments the value of using ACT workflow reengineering approaches. It fosters
dialogue and consensus on initiative goals, helps drive a coordinated transformation
approach, and supports collaboration with external partners working on related targets.
ACT Vision: Best Healthcare for Everyone, Everywhere
1

ACT-enabled Workflow Reengineering Within Target Across Targets
Within Organization Targeted Transformation Strategy Enterprise Transformation Approach
Across Organizations Learning Communities for Targets Ecosystem Enhancement
● Collaboration and Networking: Organizations can leverage their connection with the
ACT Steering Committee and Network to crowdsource solutions, disseminate successful
innovations, identify potential collaborators to address unmet needs, and accelerate
learning. Participants include key stakeholders - CMOs, CMIOs, HL7 board chair and
LHS Workgroup, EHR vendors, patient partners and / advocates, Quality Improvement /
HRO / LHS / digital health / business culture experts. ACT uses Collaboration
Whiteboards and a Transformation Initiative Catalog to foster these exchanges.
Here is an example of all the ACT offerings above being put into action to drive health system
transformation. This poster is being featured by The Joint Commission as an exemplary
approach.
Call for Collaboration1
ACT welcomes mutually beneficial engagement with organizations and individuals.
Opportunities for ACT support in addressing clinical and business priorities include:
● Enhance approach to achieving desired outcomes by using ACT Workflow
Reengineering Framework, Worksheets, and Collaborations; e.g., start with target-
focused pilot, then scale to more settings and targets.
● Create or improve target focused learning communities using ACT frameworks and
methods for accelerating valuable cross-fertilization.
● Leverage the growing network of ACT Collaborators to access and improve key
ingredients for transformation success, e.g., health IT/AI strategies, tools, and standards;
quality improvement methods and resources; public health and payer perspectives.
● Leverage ACT activities as a ‘learning lab’ for trainees, building on ACT’s prior work
supporting education and training.
We’d love to learn more about your strategic goals and challenges, and explore
opportunities to collaborate in mutually beneficial ways!
1 ACT offerings are available via organizations participating in the ACT Steering Committee and Network. Contact
Jerry Osheroff (ACT Founder and Steering Committee Chair) for further information.
ACT Vision: Best Healthcare for Everyone, Everywhere
2

ACT Vision: Best Healthcare for Everyone, Everywhere
3