 Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup : Approaches to Measuring Patient-Centered CDS Workflow and Lifeflow Impact Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality 5600 Fishers Lane Rockville, MD 20857 www.ahrq.gov Contract No: 75Q80120D00018 Prepared by: Priyanka J. Desai, PhD, MSPH and Jerome A. Osheroff, MD, FACP, FACMI Frances Jiménez, MPH Krysta Heaney -Huls, MPH Sofia Ryan, MSPH Allison B. McCoy, PhD, ACHIP, FAMIA Prashila M. Dullabh, MD, ACHIP, FAMIA CDSiC Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup AHRQ Publication No. 23-0061 July 2023 
 i PURPOSE The C linical Decision Support (CDS) Innovation Collaborative (CDSiC) Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup is charged with identifying measures of patient-centered c linical decision support ( PC CDS) adoption, implementation, and use that can be used to scale safe and effective CDS tools beyond initial implementation sites . The Workgroup is comprised of 12 experts and stakeholders representing divers e perspectives related to CDS. This report is intended to be used broadly by those interested in a dvancing the understanding and evaluation of PC CDS impacts on care team workflows and patient/caregiver lifeflows. FUNDING STATEMENT This project was funded under contract number 75Q80120D00018 from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The opinions expressed in this document are those of the authors and do not reflect the official position of AHRQ or HHS. PUBLIC DOMAIN NOTICE This document is in the public domain and may be used and reprinted without permission in the United States unless materials are clearly noted as copyrighted in the document. No one may reproduce copyrighted materials without the permission of the copyright holders. Users outside the United States must get permission from AHRQ to reprint or translate this product. Anyone wanting to reproduce this product for sale must contact AHRQ for permission. Citation of the source is appreciated. SUGGESTED CITATION Desai PJ, Osheroff JA, Jiménez F, Heaney -Huls K, Ryan S, McCoy AB, Dullabh PM, CDSiC Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup. Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup: Approaches to Measuring Patient-Centered CDS Workflow and Lifeflow Impact. Prepared under Contract No. 75Q80120D00018. AHRQ Publication No. 23-0061. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; July 2023. 
 ii Contributors : CDSiC Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup Members of the Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination of CDS Workgroup who contributed to this report are listed below. Name Affiliation Paul Dexter, MD Regenstrief Ben Hamlin, DrPH National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) Christopher Harle, PhD Indiana University Polina Kukhareva, PhD, MPH University of Utah Tiffany Peterson LupusChat David M. Rubins, MD Brigham & Women’s Hospital Dean F. Sittig, PhD University of Texas Christopher Tignanelli, MD, MS University of Minnesota Adam Wright, PhD Vanderbilt University 
 iii Table of Contents 1. Introduction & Background ................................................................................ 1 2. Methods ............................................................................................................ 3 2.1 Scoping Review on PC CDS Workflow Measurement ............................................................ 3 2.2 Development of PC CDS Workflow Diagram .......................................................................... 3 2.3 Analysis and Synthesis ........................................................................................................... 4 3. How Does PC CDS Intersect with Patient Lifeflows and the Care Team Workflows? ........................................................................................................ 5 3.1 Patient/Caregiver Interactions Outside Healthcare Encounters .............................................. 7 3.2 Patient/Caregiver Interactions and Care Team Workflows Between Healthcare Encounters . 8 3.3 Patient/Caregiver Interactions and Care Team Workflows During Healthcare Encounters .... 8 3.4 A Unified View of PC CDS Workflows ..................................................................................... 9 4. What Types of Approaches and Measures Have Been Used to Assess PC CDS Workflow and Lifeflow Impacts? ............................................................. 11 4.1 Clinician -centered Measures ................................................................................................. 14 4.2 Patient-centered Measures ................................................................................................... 15 5. What Do We Know About the Effects of PC CDS on Care Team Workflows and Patient Lifeflows? ..................................................................................... 17 6. What Measurement Gaps Remain and How Can We Move Forward? ........... 19 Appendix A. Scoping Review Methodology ......................................................... 25 Research Questions .................................................................................................................... 25 Search Strategy  .......................................................................................................................... 25 Inclusion Criteria ......................................................................................................................... 26 References .......................................................................................................... 27 
 iv List of Exhibits Exhibit 1. Workflow -related Intervention Dimensions ................................................................ 4 Exhibit 2. Uses of PC CDS Outside of, Between, and During Healthcare Encounters ............. 5 Exhibit 3. Intersection of Patient Lifeflow with PC CDS Outside, Between, and During Healthcare Encounters ................................................................................................................. 7 Exhibit 4. Intersection of PC CDS with the Patient Lifeflow Outside Healthcare Encounters .... 7 Exhibit 5. Intersection of PC CDS with the Patient Lifeflow and Care Team Workflows Between Healthcare Encounters .............................................................................................. 8 Exhibit 6. Intersection of PC CDS During Healthcare Encounters ............................................ 9 Exhibit 7. The Unified PC CDS Workflow and Lifeflow Diagram ............................................. 10 Exhibit 8. Measure Concepts within Each Workflow -related Intervention Dimension ............. 12 Exhibit 9. Measure Concepts Relevant to Clinician/Care Team PC CDS Interactions ............ 14 Exhibit 10. Measurement Concepts Relevant to Patient/Caregiver PC CDS Interactions ........ 15 Exhibit 11. Sample Workflow Impacts and Measures for Measure Concepts ........................... 16 Exhibit 12. Summary of Key Findings on PC CDS Effects on Care Team Workflows and Patient Lifeflows ................................................................................................................... 19 Exhibit A1. Key Search Terms ................................................................................................... 25 Exhibit A2. Number of Results from Proposed Search Strings  ................................................. 26 Exhibit A3. Literature Search Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria  ................................................. 26 
 1 1. Introduction & Background The healthcare ecosystem is undergoing unprecedented transition in how care, payment, and research is approached. Among the myriad innovations, emphasis on creating a health system that provides value-based, whole-person care and results in positive patient outcomes is a central theme. The quintuple aim helps realize this vision by outlining five goals for healthcar e quality improvement: improving population health, enhancing patient care experience, reducing costs, improving the work life of providers, and advancing health equity.1 Patient-centered clinical decision support (PC CDS) is one mechanism that can help drive this transformation. PC CDS encompasses digital tools to support patients and their care teams in both independent and shared decision making. The goal is to promote health- and healthcare-related decisions and actions that are responsive to the individual’s life circumstances and preferences and improve care processes and outcomes. PC CDS accomplishes this through the inclusion of information provided by the patient (e.g., patient- generated health data, social determinants of health data) as well as findings from patient-centered outcomes research (PCOR). 2,3 PC CDS can support patients, their caregivers, and their care teams in both the processes leading up to, during, and following a healthcare encounter and in patients ’ lives outside of the healthcare setting. To be effective, PC CDS interventions must fit smoothly into clinical workflows and patient’s daily activities (i.e., “ lifeflow s”).3 For example, CDS that does not fit comfortably into clinical workflows may contribute to low user acceptance and uptake of the decision support (e.g. , evidence- based recommendation), leading to unintended consequences and suboptimal decisions and care.4 Similarly for patients, if patient-facing decision support does not adequately consider and address not only their medical data and preferences but also real -world contexts, then health management solutions informed by the decision support will not properly accommodate the daily -living contexts in which they occur . This disconnect increases the possibility that the support will not optimally foster decisions and actions aligned with patient goals and circumstances. 5,6 Understanding how decision support tools impact patients ’ decisions and actions is an emerging area, as digital health technology increasingly puts these tools directly in patients’ hands . Patient-facing CDS takes many forms, including information delivered via mobile phone apps and text messages , remote monitoring via wearable devices and other sensors, and patient portals and personal health records. Patients use the tools to track symptoms and vital signs, view clinical data such as lab results, receive and review educational materials, manage chronic conditions, and communicate with their care team. 7 These tools enable generation, transmission, and monitoring of patients’ health-related data to their clinician’s health information technology (IT) system s {e.g., an electronic health record (EHR) }, which can then be used to improve patient- centered decision making and care by providing a fuller picture of a patient’s health status and preferences. The HL7® Patient Empowerment Workgroup defines such patient-contributed data as “any data, information, or insights created, collected by, or originating from a person regarding his or her health and care.” 8 Common types of patient- contributed data generated outside of a clinical encounter include health histories and lifestyle choices, real -time self-reported 
 2 health conditions, mood, and behavior, patient-reported outcomes, and biometric data measured by patients.6,9 These data are shared with clinical care team members to support collaboration around the person’s health.8 These patient data management tools also support patient activities in their daily life, including generating data that informs patient-specific PC CDS guidance on decisions and actions . Despite growing implementation and use of PC CDS in healthcare, understanding PC CDS intervention effects on workflows and patient lifeflow s–and where to best trigger CDS for optimal integration into workflows and lifeflow s—remains nascent.3,10 More information is needed about current approaches to measuring these effects to inform the development and use of more robust approaches. Purpose of This Report. This report aims to identify how organizations and researchers measur e the effect of PC CDS interventions on care team workflows and patient and caregiver lifeflow s. We focus on three distinct types of PC CDS : 1) patient-facing CDS, 2) clinician -facing CDS, and 3) CDS for shared decision making. While we performed a broad review of the literature, this report is not an exhaustive list of workflow and lifeflow impact measures and measurement approaches; rather, it provides a discussion of commonly documented measurement concepts and tools. In addition to summarizing workflow and lifeflow impacts that are captured in the literature, this report provides a framework for how PC CDS interventions impact care team workflows and patient lifeflow s, as well as pragmatic considerations informed by the current evidence base so that CDS researchers, implementers, evaluator s, and others can apply these findings to their daily work. In Section 2, Methods we summarize our literature review and key informant interview approach to create a unified workflow diagram and the organizing workflow/lifeflow impact measure framework. Section 3, How Does PC CDS Intersect with Patient Lifeflow s and the Care Team Workf lows? Presents a unified workflow diagram that illustrates the three clinical and patient/caregiver aspects of PC CDS interventions, including clinician-facing PC CDS that does not directly involve patients, PC CDS to support shared decision making, and patient-facing PC CDS. Section 4, What Types of Approaches and Measures Have Been Used to Assess PC CDS Workflow and Lifeflow Impacts? Provides a discussion of measurement concepts and approaches used to measure the impacts of PC CDS interventions on workflow processes (i.e., workflow -related intervention dimensions). Section 5, What Do We Know About the Effects of PC CDS on Care Team Workflows and Patient Lifeflow s? Summarizes, at a high level, the state of the evidence of PC CDS intervention impacts on care team workflows and patient lifeflows measures as revealed by our literature review. How To Use th e Report: This report’s framework can help identify interactions between care teams and patients and caregivers and the PC CDS intervention, or “trigger points” within the clinical workflow and the patient lifeflow. This can help users: • Consider the context of patients’ lives when developing PC CDS tools and interventions and where key activities intersect with care team workflows. • Optimally deploy PC CDS interventions within the patient lifeflow . 
 3 Section 6, What Measurement Gaps Remain and How Do We Move Forward? The report concludes with a discussion of gaps in the literature pertaining to workflow/lifeflow measures and measurement approaches, as well as opportunities to close these gaps . 2. Methods We conducted a scoping review11 of the peer-reviewed literature relevant to care team workflow impacts and patient lifeflow impacts resulting from CDS usage. Findings from the literature were supplemented with key informant interview s to inform the PC CDS Workflow Diagram and examples of real-world implementations of PC CDS to highlight in this report . The CDSiC Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination Workgroup leader s and members provided input and guidance on the literature search, key informant interviews, synthesis, and presentation of findings. The Workgroup leader s and members also validated recommendations for the field. We briefly expand on our methods below; more detail is provided in Appendix A. 2.1 Scoping Review on PC CDS Workflow Measurement We searched PubMed to identify peer -reviewed literature in a multi -phased approach. Our search yielded 565 peer -reviewed articles. We conducted two levels of screening—a title/abstract and a full - text review. At each level, we assessed whether the reviewed records appeared to meet our eligibility criteria (see Appendix A ). Records deemed eligible at the title/abstract level were screened again at the full -text review. We conducted a full -text review of 79 peer-reviewed articles. We then determined the final list of eligible records for data abstraction, and for ineligible records, documented the r eason(s) they were excluded. In total, 57 articles were included from the literature searches. Additionally, we included five articles that were either identified through snowball sampling (consulting the reference list of included articles for other relevant articles) or recommended by Workgroup members and CDSiC project members. In total, we screened 609 peer -reviewed journal articles and included 62 articles. 2.2 Development of PC CDS Workflow Diagram We developed an initial workflow that builds on prior work addressing opportunities to improve health- related decisions and actions. This prior work includes definitions and use cases for PC CDS identified in the literature, previous and ongoing initiatives at AHRQ and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on patient lifeflows and health journeys,12,13 and literature on PC CDS workflows identified in our scoping review. As outlined in the Health Service Blueprint,12 we focused on interactions outside, between, and during clinical encounters, illustrating PC CDS workflows that involve patients/caregivers, clinicians, or both. Following initial drafting, the diagram underwent iterative review and revision with input from the Scaling, Measurement, and Dissemination Workgroup and two experts within the CDSiC project. These experts provided feedback to improve the clarity, completeness, and accuracy of the diagram. An updated version of the diagram was then validated with two external informaticians through key informant interviews. Key informants provided feedback on the content’s clarity and accuracy and the 
 4 readability of the diagram as well as information on examples of real -world implementations of PC CDS that demonstrate effectiveness and positive impacts of CDS on care team workflows and/or patient lifeflows. We developed a semi -structured discussion guide for each key informant, which allowed the inter viewer to steer the conversation toward the key informant’s expertise. Each interview was conducted via Zoom, audio recorded, and lasted approximately 60 minutes. Transcript-style notes were created for each interview to support analysis. 2.3 Analysis and Synthesis To support analysis of the articles included in our literature review for synthesis into this report, t hree independent reviewers extracted the following data from the included literature: study setting, intervention characteristics, measures and measurement approaches used to assess workflow or lifeflow impacts, and measurement findings. We conduced thematic analysis14 of qualitative and quantitative measures from the scoping review and classif ied measures by workflow-related intervention dimension: workflow context, uptake, use, and subjective value (see Exhibit 1 for more detail). Exhibit 1 . Workflow -related Intervention Dimensions Workflow- Related Intervention Dimension Definition Example Workflow Context The source of data inputs for the CDS logic Decision support triggers based on pertinent activities that provide the clinical context for the CDS intervention Uptake The initiation or adoption of the intervention Frequency with which the intervention is seen/used, or given opportunities to do so Use Changes in knowledge, behavior, or action due to use of the tool Specific workflow task/decision the intervention is designed to support and the intervention’s effects on decisions and actions (such as time to complete a specific task) Subjective Value The user’s perceptions of how the intervention impacted them Change in satisfaction or burden with the workflow/ lifeflow as modified by the CDS intervention Quantitative and qualitative measures were further org anized by whether they assessed features of patient/caregiver lifeflow s or clinician/care team workflows outside of a healthcare encounter, during a healthcare encounter, and between healthcare encounters, as well as patient/caregiver and clinician/care team interactions between and during healthcare encounters.12 
 5 3. How Does PC CDS Intersect with Patient Lifeflow s and the Care Team Workflows? PC CDS supports patients, caregivers, and their care team across a range of settings within and outside of healthcare encounters. These interventions help to gather, send, and document patient- contributed health data that can be used to inform health-related decisions and proc esses and otherwise help optimize key healthcare decisions and actions (Exhibit 2). Understanding how patients and care teams interact with PC CDS and how those interactions influence their own and each other’s workflows/lifeflow s is important to advancing the measurement of PC CDS workflow and lifeflow impacts. By recognizing where and when interactions occur, we can develop and field measures and measurement approaches that better assess interventions’ impacts on users, and ultimately develop more effective and acceptable PC CDS tools. Exhibit 2. Uses of PC CDS Outside of, Between, and During Healthcare Encounters Defining Workflow and Lifeflow Generally, workflow is defined as “the set of tasks —grouped chronologically into processes —and the set of people or resources needed for those tasks that are necessary to accomplish a given goal” .15 Within the context of PC CDS, workflows represent the intersection of the decision support with the tasks of clinician and care team (e.g., preparing for clinician visits, reviewing data, documenting decisions) and the daily lifeflow s of the patient health journey (e.g., self- care actions, completing activities of daily living, generating health data) between, during, and outside of clinical encounters. Clinician/Care Team Workflows. While there is no single, broadly applicable definition for clinical work flow,16 we define clinical workflow as the steps needed or taken to perform a clinical activity or task.17 Clinical workflows are changing, often complex, and reflect the interdependencies between clinical tasks. Additionally, they are influenced by behavioral, organizational, and societal factors.4 
 6 Patient/Caregiver Lifeflow. We consider the patient “ lifeflow ” to be patient activities both within and external to a healthcare encounter that influence an individual’s health. Health Service Blueprints, an approach currently used by VA and other participants in the Learning Health System Collaborative (LHS) to inform care transformation initiatives, offer one approach to describing these patient activities. In this report, we describe seven key activities in the patient lifeflow that echo portions of the AHRQ Patient Journey and Service Blueprint13 and the VA-funded LHS Health Service Blueprint12: 1) engage in daily activities, 2) generate health data, 3) gather health knowledge, 4) make health decisions, 5) take self- care actions, 6) have healthcare encounter, and 7) communicate with care team. Contextual Considerations Mobile phones, remote monitoring and wearable devices, and sensors allow patients to continuously gather and transmit data to their providers’ EHRs while they are living their lives, outside of medical encounters. Unlike traditional healthcare data generation, patients, not their care team, choose what data to generate and when to share it with their care team. Six factors motivate patients to collect such data: 1) usability, 2) illness experience, 3) relevance of observations of daily living, 4) information technology infrastructure, 5) degree of burden to collect and transmit data, and 6) emotional activation. 18 Health equity and social determinants of health (SDOH) are also important considerations when developing and implementing PC CDS tools and understanding their role in patient lifeflows. Importantly, equity issues related to unequal access to devices that support patient-facing CDS can lead to PC CDS being disproportionately used by wealthier, more educated, white patient populations.19,20 Additionally, these tools should collect and take into account patient data related to their SDOH , like access to transportation, food insecurity, employment, where they live, and others, and additional demographic data to tailor interventions to patient needs for increased likelihood of adoption. 21 These two lenses of health equity and SDOH should be routinely applied in PC CDS approaches to collecting, capturing, and processing patient-contributed data. The Unified PC CDS Workflow Diagram Here, we present a framework that reflects the patient experience in using PC CDS tools, both within and outside of the patient encounter and the relationship between clinician workflows and patient lifeflow s, named the Unified PC CDS Workflow Diagram. Our unified workflow diagram captures clinician workflows and patient lifeflows across three settings: 1) outside healthcare encounters, 2) between healthcare encounters, and 3) during healthcare encounters. Within these settings, PC CDS interventions can be patient-facing only (i.e., tools that are used by patients without the support of a care team member), clinician-facing only (i.e., int ervention use does not directly involve patients), or both patient- and clinician-facing to support shared decision making. In each setting, PC CDS intersects with the seven steps of the patient “lifeflow ” (Exhibit 3), which represent interactions between the patient and the PC CDS intervention, or “trigger points” within the patient lifeflow for a PC CDS tool. 12 Below, we elaborate on the intersection of PC CDS with the patient lifeflow and the clinician workflow, first presenting the individual components of the diagram and then the unified diagram. 
 7 Exhibit 3 . Intersection of Patient Lifeflow with PC CDS Outside, Between, and During Healthc are Encounters 3.1 Patient/Caregiver Interactions Outside Healthcare Encounters Outside of healthcare encounters, patients and/or caregivers interact with PC CDS tools in their daily lives (Exhibit 4). The flow of information between patients/caregivers (indicated by “P”) and patient- facing CDS tools, like patient apps and personal devices, provides patients with the guidance needed to support health-related decisions and self-care actions as they live their lives. These interactions can also inform patient/caregiver interactions with their care team between and during healthcare encounters, as these data can provide a fuller picture of their patient’s health in their daily lives, including patterns and trends that may influence health. Exhibit 4 . Intersection of PC CDS with the Patient Lifeflow Outside Healthcare Encounters 
 8 3.2 Patient/Caregiver Interactions and Care Team Workflows Between Healthcare Encounters Patient-facing CDS and clinician-facing CDS both support health-related activities between healthcare encounters (Exhibit 5). In this stage, patient-facing CDS enables patients to share data with their care team, ask questions of their care team (indicated by “C”), review materials shared by clinicians, and prepare to and make decisions. These activities support patient lifeflow activities of generating health data, gathering health knowledge, making health-related decisions, and communicating with their care team. The clinician-facing tools used between healthcare encounters support the care team’s pre-visit activities and post-visit follow -up. Clinician-facing CDS also allow care teams to interact with patient- contributed data and answer patient questions between healthcare encounters to support ongoing care management and patient decision making. Exhibit 5 . Intersection of PC CDS with the Patient Lifeflow and Care Team Workflows Between Healthcare Encounters 3.3 Patient/Caregiver Interactions and Care T eam Workflows During Healthcare Encounters During the clinical encounter, PC CDS can be either clinician - and patient -facing (i.e., shared decision making CDS) or just clinician-facing (Exhibit 6). Both types of PC CDS support patients/caregivers and their care teams in establishing encounter goals, reviewing existing data, gathering new data during the visit, reviewing evidence -based guidance, making decisions, executing decisions, and documenting data, decisions, and actions. 
 9 Exhibit 6. Intersection of PC CDS During Healthcare Encounters PC CDS to support shared decision making between patients/caregivers and care teams allows patients ’ care teams to share and document key information and apply it to support evidence-based health-related decision s and actions . Under ideal conditions, the clinician and patient/caregiver will review PC CDS output together, followed by a discussion of patient values and preferences and discussion of their medical options to arrive at a mutually desirable plan. This process can play out over one or several encounters, with patients supplementing the shared decision-making conversation with additional inputs from their personal support network and independent information gathering to ultimately influence the sel f-care actions that they take. For healthcare encounters supported by clinician-facing PC CDS, the tool will again use patient data (collected either outside of, between, and/or during the visit) to generate evidence-based guidance that the clinician uses to make a decision or take action (order labs, perform a screening, etc.). The care team member then discusses or applies that decision to the patients’/caregivers’ treatment plan, and the PC CDS tool supports documentation of the decisions. The information, guidance, and activities supported by the clinician-facing or shared decision-making PC CDS influences health-related decisions that patients make and carry out. Downstream effects of these decisions include patients’ actions outside of and between healthcare encounters, including self- care actions that support management of health conditions as well as broader daily life activities. 3.4 A Unified View of PC CDS Workflows These three workflow types combine to create a unified workflow diagram that accounts for both patient/caregiver lifeflow s and care team workflows, illustrating how patients’ activities and decisions are both influenced by and influencers of clinical workflows (Exhibit 7). While the individual components are presented separately above, the activities and actions of patients, caregivers, and care team members within each workflow setting (i.e., outside, between, and during encounters) reciprocally 
 10 influence each other and are inherently connected in their impact on patients’ ability to gather health knowledge, make health decisions, and take self- care actions. Exhibit 7 . The Unified PC CDS Workflow and Lifeflow Diagram 
 11 4. What Types of Approaches and Measures Have Been Used to Assess PC CDS Workflow and Lifeflow Impacts? A range of measures can be used to assess the impact of PC CDS on workflows and lifeflow s. While our review was not exhaustive, we identified 7 5 unique measures relevant to assessing the workflow or lifeflow impacts of PC CDS. Of these, the majority assessed effects of PC CDS during a healthcare encounter, with uses for between healthcare encounters, and a handful of measures assessing impacts occurring outside healthcare encounters. Our review identified the greatest number of unique measures for the workflow dimension of use, followed by workflow context, uptake, and subjective value. In terms of measures captured by interaction type, there were fewer measures for assessing impacts of patient/caregiver and care team joint interactions facilitated by PC CDS, compared to patient/caregiver and care teams’ independent interactions with PC CDS. The use of patient-centered measures to assess PC CDS effectiveness has centered primarily on adoption of specific patient-facing tools and the use of the decision aids. We observed greater variety in the application of workflow measures for care teams . However a large majority of measures were focused on reducing clinician workflow burdens to mitigate alert fatigue and clinician burnout. Within each workflow -related intervention dimension of workflow context, uptake, use, and subjective value, we grouped individual measures under broader measure concepts , which are high-level measurement areas assessing the effect of a PC CDS intervention on patient lifeflows and care team workflows. See Exhibit 8 for a list of measure concepts used. While extensive, this is not an exhaustive Potential Uses of the Unified PC CDS Workflow Diagram • For planning purposes to ensure CDS is patient- centered in its deployment (i.e., when and where clinicians/patients are prompted) • To support discussions around resource needs and how to operationalize PC CDS tools • For user (i.e., clinician) training, to convey how a tool can support patient sel f-care activities • To support grant applications for PC CDS clinical trials Key Terminology • Measure: The specific metric used to assess a workflow or lifeflow impact of PC CDS (e.g., cognitive task load, decisional conflict, intention to use). • Clinician -centered Measures: Measures that assess the care team experience, behavior, or perspective, as related to clinical workflows. • Patient -centered Measures: Measures that assess the care received, patient experience, behavior, or perspective, as related to the seven patient lifeflow activities. Note that a measure can be patient -centered even if it’s reported by an observer or clinician. • Measurement Domain: Includes who interacts with the PC CDS (i.e., patient/caregiver or care team) and where the interaction takes place (i.e., outside of, between, or during healthcare encounter). • Workflow Dimension: Four CDS intervention -related dimensions ; see Section 2.4 for more detail. • Measurement Concepts: A grouping of individual measures used to assess a similar theme or outcome (e.g., patient participation, acceptance, adoption) for both patients and care team s. 
 12 list of all measure concepts and measurement approaches that are currently used to assess workflow and lifeflow impacts of PC CDS interventions. Exhibit 8 . Measure Concepts within Each Workflow -related Intervention Dimension Measure Concept Definition Workflow Context PC CDS design characteristics The underlying design principles (i.e., theoretical frameworks, conceptual models) and processes (i.e., providing user training) of the PC CDS tool design. PC CDS format PC CDS intervention type (e.g., alert, flowsheet, order set, info button). Workflow/ lifeflow integration PC CDS elements and how the intervention was deployed to integrate within existing clinical workflows and patient lifeflow s. Patient participation/involvement The degree to which patients were involved in decision making abou t care and level of patient/provider communication (e.g., care planning). Uptake Frequency shown/displayed to end- user How often the PC CDS intervention was shown to the end -user. Patient adoption Documentation of patient adoption of the PC CDS tool and details of its reach. Care team adoption Documentation of care team adoption of the PC CDS tool and details of its reach. Care team acceptance Care team acceptance of the information / recommendations provided. Use Knowledge Changes in knowledge about a disease/condition, risks and benefits, treatment options, and clinical guidelines. Efficiency Assessment of efficiency of using the PC CDS tool, changes in the time or number of steps needed to complete a task, and time required to understand the information presented by the PC CDS tool. Change in workflow appropriateness The tool’s support of and effect on clinicians’ completion of guideline - recommended care. Change in workflow timin g and coordination Changes in temporal aspects of workflows and teamwork. Patient decision making The resulting impacts from patients’ involvement in decision making processes, user -rated assessments of decision- making aids, and support for patients’ decision making that aligns with their goals. Subjective Value Change in user satisfaction User satisfaction with the PC CDS tool and processes supported by the tool. Perceived utility Users’ perceptions of the tool’s usefulness for supporting key healthcare decisions and actions. Alert fatigue/burnout User perception of the tool’s impact on alert fatigue and/or feelings of burnout. Mental workload The cognitive load or burden associated with using the PC CDS tool or changes in user -rated cognitive load/burden when completing a workflow task or activity as a result of using the PC CDS tool. Patient decision quality Aspects related to the patient’s satisfaction, certainty, and confidence in their decision and their decision’s alignment with their values. 
 13 Researchers, CDS implementers /evaluators , and others use various measurement approaches to assess the impacts of interventions of workflows and lifeflow s. Measurement approaches can be distinguished by 1) the type of measure used (e.g., distal, proxy, direct measure of workflow), 2) the type of data collected (e.g., quantitative or qualitative), and 3) who or how the data was collected (e.g., observer -reported, user -reported, or software/sensor observational data). Quantitative, qualitative, and a combination of the two measurement approaches can be used to assess workflow and lifeflow impacts of CDS interventions. Approaches for collecting data to study the workflows themselves include workflow modeling approaches like sequential pattern mining and task transition analysis ; qualitative approaches such as open-ended questionnaire responses, ethnographic observation of real -world or simulated care, focus groups, and interviews ; and quantitative approaches , including time- motion studies and log analyses .4 Computational ethnography , an emergent technique combining elements of traditional ethnography and digital data collection tools,22 can also be used in workflow studies. Examples of methods that fall within computational ethnography include using screen capture software or sensors such as eye tracking devices.23 Quantitative data sources can include numeric study observations, scores derived from participant- completed scales, EHR historical log data or other documentation, screen capture software data, and eye-tracking data. For measures assessing user opinions or experiences, some investigators devel op questionnaires tailored to their intervention. While some studies did not cite existing theories or conceptual models (e.g., Theory of Acceptance Model24), in developing study - or intervention-specific questionnaire items, utilizing existing theories and conceptual models to inform questionnaire development is best practice.25 It is important to note that workflow studies tend to assess distal or proxy measures, such as time spent using the EHR, clinician performance, guideline compliance, and patient outcomes, rather than make direct assessments of changes to workflows, such as the completion of a set task or the order in which tasks are completed.4 Practical Consideration Clinical workflows and patient lifeflow s are highly context- specific. Therefore, considering contextual factors is integral to the design PC CDS interventions and study of workflow/lifeflow impacts. Reporting thorough and in-depth descriptions of context and methods is also extremely important to being able to understand which research findings are relevant to your wor k, given the contexts and settings studied.16 Practical Consideration Which measurement approaches you use ultimately depends on: • Study objectives • Workflow and lifeflow contexts, intervention setting and contexts • Resource availability • Availability of relevant data • EHR capabilities • Relevance of existing validated tools and scales • Ability to create study -specific tools/scales 
 14 4.1 Clinician -centered Measures Here we outline measure concepts relevant to clinicians’ workflow im pacts. Based on our literature review, clinician-centered measures have not been equally assessed across settings. Most sources identified measurement concepts related to clinician and care team interactions with PC CDS during healthcare encounters. See Exhibit 9 for a description of measurement concepts pertaining to clinician and care team interactions with PC CDS between and during healthcare encounters. Exhibit 9. Measure Concepts Relevant to Clinician/Care Team PC CDS Interactions Measure Concepts Between Healthcare Encounters During Healthcare Encounters Workflow Context PC CDS design characteristics X X PC CDS format X X Workflow/ lifeflow integration X X Patient participation/involvement X X Uptake Frequency shown/displayed to end user X Care team adoption X X Care team acceptance X Use Change in workflow appropriateness X Changes in workflow timing and coordination X Efficiency X X Knowledge X Patient decision making X Subjective Value Alert fatigue/burnout X Changes in user satisfaction X X Mental workload X X Perceived utility X X 
 15 4.2 Patient -centered Measures There is far greater diversity in the measure concepts assessed for lifeflow impacts of patients/caregivers in the “during healthcare encounters” setting, compared to outside and between encounters. See Exhibit 10 for a description of measurement concepts used to assess patient and caregiver interactions with PC CDS between, during, and outside of healthcare encounters. Exhibit 10. Measurement Concepts Relevant to Patient/Caregiver PC CDS Interactions Measure Concepts Outside Healthcare Encounters Between Healthcare Encounters During Healthcare Encounters Workflow Context CDS Format X X X Workflow/ lifeflow integration X X X Patient participation/involvement X Type of CDS X X X Uptake Patient adoption X X X Use Efficiency X X Knowledge X Patient decision making X X X Subjective Value Change in user satisfaction X Patient decision quality X X Mental workload X X Perceived utility X X Within each measure concept, several measures can be used to assess workflow and lifeflow impacts pertaining to the concept. Exhibit 11 presents examples of workflow impacts and corresponding measures or tools used. For many impacts , multiple tools exist and are used to assess the same outcome; for a few impacts, there was greater coalescence around one or two tools or approaches taken in the literature. 
 16 Exhibit 11. Sample Workflow Impacts and Measures for Measure Concepts Measure Concept Workflow Impact Measure Measure/Tool Used CDS Intervention Patient d ecision quality Patient decisional quality • Decisional Conflict Scale26 • Fours Habits Coding Scheme27 • OPTION Scale28 • Decision Support Analysis Tool29,30 • Control Preference Scale31 Patient decision aid Change in user satisfaction Patient satisfaction with clinician communication • Art of Medicine Questionnaire32 • Quality of Communication Questionnaire33 • Combined Outcome Measure for Risk Communication and Treatment Decision (COMRADE)34 • Qualitative Interviews Patient decision aid Mental workload Mental task load • NASA- Task Load Index35 • Rating Scale Mental Effort36 • Subjective Workload Dominance Scale37 • Total time required to complete task • Total number of CDS alerts • Total number of patient encounters • Eye-tracking to measure pupil dilation changes and eye fixations EHR Patient participation or involvement Involvement of patients in decision making • OPTION Scale28 • Reynolds Intellectual Assessment Scales (RIAS)38 • CollaboRATE39,40 • COMRADE34 • Problem -Solving Decision making Scale41 • Shared Decision Making Scale42 • The decision making subscale of the Modified Perceived Involvement in Care Scale (M - PICS)43 Patient decision aid Efficiency Task efficiency • Mean time spent on clinical tasks (i.e., chart review) • Number of tasks per minute • Number steps required to complete a clinical task Point -of-care CDS 
 17 5. What Do We Know About the Effects of PC CDS on Care Team Workflows and Patient Lifeflow s? Our review of the literature on PC CDS care team workflow and patient lifeflow impacts reinforced that this is an evolving field that lacks a clear consensus on how PC CDS interventions positively or negatively affect workflows and lifeflow s – and even how these should be measured. The ambiguity is partly due to the current state of the evidence on workflow and lifeflow impacts as an emergent field with limited rigorous, generalizable findings and a lack of standardized measures and metrics. The inconsistent, non-systematic integration of PC CDS into clinician workflows and patient/c aregiver lifeflow s, as currently observed in the literature, is one contributing factor to the lack of rigorous and generalizable findings. A key factor in realizing positive workflow and lifeflow impacts is integration into existing workflows and lifeflows; however, many published studies have not done so due to the complex undertaking of full integration. Care Team Workflow Impacts. To date, much of the available literature on care team workflow impacts of PC CDS has focused on the impacts of clinician-f acing CDS, and to a lesser extent , PC CDS that supports shared decision making during the healthcare encounter. The evidence on the impact of PC CDS on clinician workflows is mixed, with findings from interventions both reporting positive, neutral, and negative impacts and inconsistency in how PC CDS affects workflows across studies. Among positive care team impacts that were observed in the literature, adoption of shared decision- making processes, completion of guideline-recommended care, and provision of patient-centric care were described. Much of the clinician-centered outcomes related to workflow impacts concerned reducing alert fatigue and clinician burnout. While we observed that PC CDS interventions can increase clinician efficiency, an important metric due to its implications for alert fatigue and clinician burnout, PC CDS interventions can also contribute to alert fatigue and burnout. Efficiency is measured in several ways in the literature, in part due to the CDS tool and the objectives of the intervention. Studies measuring the impact of PC CDS interventions of clinician efficiency have reported positive effects in mean time spent on clinical tasks, including reducing time spent on chart review, completing more recommended tasks per minute, reducing the time needed to manage acute conditions, 44,45,46 and decreasing the number steps required to complete a clinical task.44 However, while reduced time spent on individual tasks is often cited as a result of CDS interventions, it is important to note that these metrics do not capture the level of workflow fragmentation, another metric of clinician efficiency. When not implemented into workflows properly, CDS interventions can increase fragmentation of tasks and switching between tasks, which may explain why, clinicians’ overall time spent on clinical tasks can decrease, yet clinicians may still report experiencing higher workloads and disrupted workflows.4 Patient Lifeflow Impacts. Much of the available literature on the impact of PC CDS on patient lifeflow s focuses on activities that take place during the healthcare encounter; less is known about how PC CDS impacts patients outside of or between encounters. Some positive findings for the impact of patient portals and patient apps on patient adoption of the tools and improved care team communication between and outside of encounters have been reported; however, findings that these interventions have had no effect on tool adoption and communication between patients and their care team have also been found. 20,47 These PC CDS interventions are still a developing field, and available research does not support any strong conclusions about positive impacts. 
 18 While patient apps, devices, and portals are an emerging area, the literature on patient lifeflow s has mainly focused on shared decision- making interventions deployed in the context of healthcare encounters and assessing the impact of patient decision aids on patients’ decision making and experienc e with care. These interventions primarily involve the use of patient decision aids, provided either before or during a medical visit. Changes in patient knowledge, decisional conflict, and engagement were among the most commonly studied outcomes of patient decision aids . And while there is evidence to suggest that patient decision aids improve these outcomes, there are also reports of shared decision-making interventions having little or no impact. For example, several systematic reviews have shown that patient decision aids have a significant moderate effect on improving patient knowledge of their disease compared to usual care. 48,49,50,51,52,53 However, meta-analyses indicated a high level of heterogeneity and deemed the level of evidence as having low certainty. 50,52,53,54 Additionally, while knowledge specific to the content of the decision aid may improve, evidence indicates that general disease-specific knowledge after using decision aids remains unchanged.55 Importantly, improvements in patient knowledge have been associated with reducing decision making conflicts and a stronger commitment to treatment.51 Mixed results for decisional conflict are also reported across studies. Decisional conflict is defined in the literature as the uncertainty that a patient experiences when presented with competing actionable choices , and they must weigh the “risk, regret, or challenge to personal life values” of those choices.56 While no studies reported an increase in decisional conflict following participation in a CDS intervention, some reported no change in decisional conflict, a non-significant reduction, or a significant decrease in decisional conflict in studies of patient decision aids 48,52,55,57,58 using the Decisional Conflict Scale. Use of decision aids is associated with higher levels of patient engagement59,60 and patient involvement.52,53,55 However, significant heterogeneity between studies has been noted.53 The variety in studies is in part attributed to the lack of a clear definition of patient engagement or involvement. These terms are used interchangeably, with definitions ranging from “the percent of patients and family members who reported knowing their personal condition-specific risk factors”59 to “active involvement of patients in their own health care”45. Exhibit 12 summarizes these findings on PC CDS impacts to workflows and lifeflow s. 
 19 Exhibit 12. Summary of Key Findings on PC CDS Effects on Care Team Workflows and Patient Lifeflow s Key Findings Overall State of the Literature The study of workflow and lifeflow impacts resulting from PC CDS interventions is an emerging field with evolving evidence. We found that there is not yet a robust body of evidence across settings to indicate that a particular type of PC CDS intervention could be predictably expected to yield a specific, positive workflow and lifeflow impact s. Care Team Workflows The majority of literature related to workflow and lifeflow impacts focuses on impacts of clinician- facing CDS on care team workflows. Alert fatigue and clinician burnout are common primary outcomes of clinician workflow studies. PC CDS interventions have been found to both reduce alert fatigue and burnout, but also can increase these outcomes due to workflow fragmentation and increased inefficiency. Patient Lifeflows Literature on patient lifeflow s mainly focuses on shared decision making interventions deployed in the context of healthcare encounters, with the majority focusing on patient decision aids. Decisional conflict, patient knowledge, and patient engagement or involvement in care were commonly assessed outcomes; however, mixed findings on the impact of PC CDS interventions on these outcomes were captured in the literature. 6. What Measurement Gaps Remain and How Can We Move Forward? From our literature review, we identified measurement gaps in three areas: those fundamental to conducting workflow studies, gaps in the quality of evidence, and gaps related to specific measures and outcomes. Exhibit 13 presents gaps and corresponding recommendations to advance understanding of the impact of PC CDS interventions on workflows and lifeflows related to the conduct of workflow studies, quality of evidence, and gaps related to specific measures included in workflow/lifeflow impact assessments. 
 20 Exhibit 13 . Workflow and Lifeflow Impact Measurement Gaps and Recommendations Gap Recommendation Conducting and Reporting Workflow Studies Workflow Definition: Inconsistent definition of clinical workflow used in research. This presents challenges in understanding the purpose and findings of workflow research. • Develop a precise definition of workflow —or context - specific definitions —to support study design. Using such definition s in study reporting will help others understand and build on of the research’s purpose and impact.16 • The Workflow Elements Model provides a conceptual model of clinical workflows that can be used by researchers designing and reporting on workflow studies to better define and study workflows.16 Reporting Impact: Limited information available about the impact of interventions on existing clinical workflows and adaptations required for successful deployment and use of CDS tools, and how these should be reported. • Measure and report effects of CDS on temporal aspects of workflow to understand impacts related to workflow integration and fragmentation, such as when the appropriate time to elicit patient preferences is, or how the results of decision support tool act ivities fit within the patient –care team dialogue.61 • Reporting should also include descriptions of variation in workflows from the standardized workflow to better understand variations in outcomes .4 Measuring Impact: Difficulty identifying clinical workflow aspects that are important to study and can be reliably measured. Most workflow studi es do not directly assess impacts to workflows, but rather proxy measures that indicate the performance of the workflow. Develop and use methods to directly study workflow and clinician workarounds during and following implementation of PC CDS intervention s. Workflow measures should directly capture the completion of a set of necessary tasks and the order in which they were completed.4 Reporting Inconsistency: Inconsistency in how workflow studies report study design and results, which makes cross- study synthesis very difficult, diminishing the ability to accumulate knowledge as a field. Develop reporting guidelines to improve consistency in how methods and findings are reported for workflow studies. For example, the STAMP (Suggested Time and Motion Procedures) Checklist is a potential resource that can support better reporting of workflow studies utilizing time- motion methods. 62 Patient -facing PC CDS: Limited number of studies exist on the impact of CDS tools on patient activities outside of healthcare encounters context, with the majority focusing on patient portal usage. Further, patient portal studies are limited and present inconsistent results, often due to the use of non- standardized terminology related to portal features and implementation and limited analysis of patient portal usage data. • Use standardized evaluation frameworks and measures to strengthen comparisons of patient portal implementation and outcomes .18 For example, a taxonomy of patient portal functionalities could support standardized description of portal features and terminology, which can enable comparing and aggregating results across interventions.63 • Analyze patient portal usage to identify relationships between portal usage and patient outcomes to understand what qualifies as meaningful portal usage.47 Lifeflow Analysis: The majority of workflow studies fail to consider the relationship and gaps between patient health- related activities in patients’ daily lives and activities within the clinical context, prohibiting design of collaborative health technologies that can fill these gaps. • Conduct workflow studies that are patient -oriented, include both clinical and daily living settings and include both process and structure measures . • Develop methods to capture health -related activities across clinical and daily living settings.5 
 21 Gap Recommendation Evidence Scope and Quality Patient -reported Indicators: Scant attention to measures composed of patient -reported outcomes and items to assess aspects such as disease activity and functional status needed to fully convey pertinent patient lifeflow s outside and between healthcare encounters. • Conduct research and utilize disease activity and functional status measures which can be adapted for use in telehealth/patient portal settings to support high- quality PC CDS. • Conduct r esearch to better understand how these types of measures alleviate gaps in the patient/caregiver lifeflow s.64 Evidence Quality: The majority of evidence related to PC CDS workflow and lifeflow impacts found was rated as “low quality” or at “high risk of bias” by systematic reviews and meta -analyses. Conduct rigorous workflow studies employing larger, more representative sample sizes to fill gaps left by current studies that have utilized small, non- generalizable samples.58 Contributing Intervention Factors: Insufficient analysis of intervention characteristics or development attributes that are most effective in promoting shared decision making. Develop studies to test the contributions of individual intervention characteristics on shared decision- making outcomes . 52 Measurement Benchmarks: Benchmarks for workflow and lifeflow impacts have not been established for measures critical to assessing the effectiveness of PC CDS interventions. • Develop standardi zed measures and validated tools to assess commonly measured workflow/ lifeflow so that results across studies can be compared and workflow and lifeflow impact measures can be prioritized for benchmarking. • Focus f uture measurement research on key areas , including patient and clinician adoption, clinician time spent on clinical tasks, clinician completion of guideline- recommended care, decisional conflict, informed choice, patient activation, and decision making . Measures Cognitive Workload: Clinician cognitive workload is not measured with high validity across studies. Related concepts of alert fatigue and desensitization can be used as proxy measures of cognitive workload. These measures should be prioritized so that they can be leveraged in improving patient safety.65 Informed Choice: Informed choice —the extent to which a patient can make a choice that is based on relevant knowledge, consistent with the decision- maker's values, and behaviorally implemented50—is not consistently defined in the research or measured in a standard manner. Conduct research to explore whether it is possible and beneficial to develop a generic scale for informed choice.50 Patient Knowledge: Need for a generalized measure of patient knowledge to assess the impact of CDS on disease -specific knowledge. Addressing this gap would reduce the need for developing study -specific assessment tools and may support intervention efforts to improve knowledge about a disease, and not just knowledge specific to the decision aid content .55 • Develop validated, intervention- and disease -agnostic scales and questionnaires for assessing patient knowledge outcomes. • Foster consensus on what constitutes “adequate knowledge”.50 Tool Acceptance: Inconsistent assessment of CDS acceptance, with a variety of concepts in use to assess user acceptance of CDS tools. Develop standardized, low -cost, informative measures for determining CDS intervention acceptance.54 
 22 Conducting and Reporting Workflow Studies. While an increasing number of studies look at the impact of CDS on clinical workflows, existing studies are limited in their scope and tend to focus on one type of clinical setting or distinct processes rather than multiple processes and their interactions.5 This is important because fully understanding CDS workflow impacts requires this broader perspective. V ery few studies included in our review directly assessed changes to the clinician workflow or patient lifeflow. Instead, most studies measured proxy measures as indicator s of the quality, completeness, or accuracy of a workflow. The Workflow Elements Model provides a conceptual model of clinical workflows that can be used by researchers designing and reporting on workflow studies to better define and study workflows.16 Additionally, current studies primarily focus on outcomes related to prevention or mitigation of clinician burnout due to fragmented workflows, increased workload burdens, and alert fatigue. Despite the increase in the study of clinician workflows in recent years, relatively little is known across studies about the details of how CDS interventions affect clinical workflow. CDS directly involving patients (a major component of PC CDS) is an increasing focus for driving care transformation; however, there are limited studies about how PC CDS affects patient lifeflow . Patient activities that influence health are not limited to the clinical care encounter, yet existing PC CDS studies often fail to consider the elements of a patient’s life that occur outside of a medical encounter (e.g., social, organizational, cultural, and physical environments and routines) that influence and are influenced by healthcare activities. 5 In addition to activities that occur during healthcare encounters, implementation and evaluation of PC CDS interventions should consider activities both between healthcare encounters and activities outside of encounters completely. Increasingly, health technologies, through patient-facing apps and other PC CDS tools, are supporting patients between and outside of the healthcare encounter to manage symptoms, coordinate care, communicate with their care team, exchange health-related information with clinicians and their support network, and adhere to treatment protocols. 66,67,68 While CDS interventions targeting patients in their daily lives are becoming more common, rigorous studies are still relatively scant. Our review identified a small number of studies documenting impacts of CDS interventions on patient lifeflows occurring outside of a clinical encounter. In particular, we did not identify any measures relevant to the subjective use workflow -related intervention dimension for patient lifeflow s occurring outside of healthcare encounters. Additionally, one patient advocate noted the need for greater measurement of patient portal usage and utility to patients, including measures of data available to patients in the portal and assessment of clinicians’ interactions with patients via the portal, such as how often and how quickly clinicians respond to patient messages. Evidence Scope and Quality. Despite a growing focus on the workflow and lifeflow impacts of CDS interventions, the evidence for commonly assessed outcomes is often deemed to have a high risk of bias or be of low quality, due to a high- level of heterogeneity across studies, limiting the conclusiveness of meta- analyses and systematic reviews. Even though positive results have been reported by individual studies, when assessed across studies, the impact of interventions on outcomes is low to moderate. Measures. Our literature review revealed very little standardization in approaches used to measure workflow and lifeflow impacts of PC CDS interventions. With the exception of decisional conflict, workflow/lifeflow impact measures were assessed using a variety of tools and measurement approaches, indicating a need for standardized, validated tools to assess commonly measured 
 23 workflow/lifeflow outcomes to enable comparability of results across studies. The literature identified several areas where further consensus to define and standardize measurement of outcomes is needed; for example, measures related to cognitive workload, informed choice, patient knowledge, and acceptance of the CDS tool. Developing benchmarks for measures of workflow/lifeflow impacts is a necessary step in standardizing the study of clinical workflows and patient lifeflow s and guiding quality improvement efforts related to CDS interventions. Existing implementation frameworks69,70,71 outline evaluation domains that should be captured in studies of health IT interventions . However , these are not tailored to patient-centered interventions. Given the current nascent state of the literature on PC CDS, additional research is needed to strengthen the evidence base so that benchmarking efforts in these areas can advance. Benchmarking efforts will likely depend on the context in which the CDS tool is implemented, with measure specifications and benchmarking values being influenced by the type of CDS used and setting. In addition to employing rigorous study designs ( e.g., randomized control trials), standardization of measures, assessment tools, and measurement approaches used could improve the comparability of studies and strengthen the quality of evidence about workflow impacts of PC C DS. Limitations While this report presents an extensive list of workflow and lifeflow impact measure concepts and approaches in use, we acknowledge the list is not an exhaustive inventory. W e may not have captured all measures of workflow and lifeflow impacts relevant to CDS, in part, due to the limited reporting of workflow and lifeflow measures in the literature. Additionally, not all measures currently in use, particularly in non-academic or non-research settings, are captured in the literature. Furthermore , our environmental scan scope was limited to the healthcare and health information technology ecosystem and may have excluded measures and measurement approaches relevant to PC CDS interventions from other fields. For instance, there is ongoing research to understand workflow impacts from systems engineering and industrial engineering perspectives. However, these fields were not included in our search as we focused specifically on published CDS studies . In Conclusion Care team workflows and patient lifeflows are complex, ever -changing processes that ultimately influence health-related decisions that patients make in consultation with their clinical care team and/or caregivers. Yet, there is sparse study of the effects of PC CDS interventions on patient lifeflows and corresponding care team workflows that ultimately impact individual health. Our scoping review of the peer-reviewed literature revealed that the study of PC CDS intervention impacts on workflows and lifeflows is an emerging field, and that more robust, rigorous studies are needed to fully understand PC CDS’ workflow and lifeflow impacts across settings, intervention types, and users. To support such developments in the field, this report 1) provides a framework for understanding where PC CDS interventions can be implemented in patient lifeflows and clinician workflows that occur outside of, between, and during healthcare encounters, and 2) identifies workflow - and lifeflow -related measure concepts and measurement approaches relevant to clinical and patient activities that support patients in making and carrying out health-related decisions . 
 24 Efforts to strengthen the evidence base for workflow -enhancing PC CDS can help accelerate the development, implementation, and evaluation of PC CDS -enabled approaches to improving care processes and outcomes and realizing the quintuple aim. 
 25 Appendix A. Scoping Review Methodology Research Questions 1. How do organizations, researchers, and implementers/evaluators currently measure clinical workflow and patient “ lifeflow ” in the following types of CDS ? a. Workflow impacts for care team members that don’t directly involve patients for CDS interventions that meet the criteria for patient-centered (PC) CDS interventions; b. Workflow impacts associated PC CDS interventions that support shared decision making between patients and care teams; and c. Workflow/lifeflow impacts associated with PC CDS interventions where patients and caregivers are direct intervention recipients . 2. What CDS interventions workflow and user satisfaction results are reported? a. Which workflow impact measures present opportunities for future benchmarking of PC CDS intervention workflow effects? Search Strategy  We conducted a search of the peer -reviewed literature in PubMed. Terms represent key areas of relevance (e.g., CDS) combined with more targeted searches of workflow -related keywords, including 1) alert fatigue and burnout; 2) shared decision making; and 3) systematic reviews of patient adoption of PC CDS tools. See Exhibit A1 for the set of search strings and Exhibit A2 for the searches ran in PubMed.  Exhibit A1. Key Search Terms Systematic Reviews String  #1 CDS Search String   #1a Revised CDS Search String #2 Alert Fatigue and Burnout  #3 Impact on Shared Decision Making  #4 Patient Adoption of PC CDS Tools  (("cochrane database syst rev"[Journal] AND "review"[Publication Type]) OR "systematic review"[Publication Type] OR ("systematic review"[Title] OR "systematic literature review"[Title] OR "systematic scoping review"[Title] OR "meta - analysis"[Title])) NOT ("comment"[Publicati"clinical decision support"[tiab] OR "Decision Support Systems, Clinical"[Mesh] OR "Medical Order Entry Systems" [Majr] OR "Decision Making, Computer - Assisted"[Majr] OR "Clinical  "clinical decision support"[tiab] OR "Decision Support Systems, Clinical"[Mesh ] OR "Decision Making, Computer - Assisted"[Majr ] OR "Clinical Decision Rules"[Majr] OR "decision aid*"[tiab] OR “alert fatigue”[tiab] OR “alarm fatigue”[tiab] OR “fatigue”[Majr] OR “Alert Fatigue, Health Personnel”[Mes h] OR “burnout”[tiab] OR “alert override”[tiab] OR “patient burden”[tiab] OR “care team burden”[tiab]   “shared decision making”[tiab] OR “patient engagement”[ti ab] OR “Patient Participation” [Majr] OR “Decision Making, Shared” [Majr] OR “Patient Care Planning” [Majr]  “patient adoption”[tiab] OR “patient use”[tiab] OR “caregiver adoption”[tiab] OR “patient endorsement” OR “patient uptake”[tiab] O R Patient Acceptance of Health Care[MeSH] OR Patient Satisfaction[MeSH]  
 26 Systematic Reviews String  #1 CDS Search String   #1a Revised CDS Search String #2 Alert Fatigue and Burnout  #3 Impact on Shared Decision Making  #4 Patient Adoption of PC CDS Tools  on Type] OR "protocol*"[Title])  Decision Rules"[Majr] "patient portal"[tiab] OR "patient app*"[tiab] OR "personal health record"[tiab]  Exhibit A2. Number of Results from Proposed Search Strings   Search   Records Returned PC CDS Systematic Reviews Systematic review search string AND #1a AND #4 78  Alert Fatigue and Burnout  #1 AND #2 279 Impact of CDS on Shared Decision Making  #1 AND #3 208 Inclusion Criteria Exhibit A 3. Literature Search Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria Inclusion Criteria Exclusion Criteria • Published/developed in 2017 or later • Peer -reviewed literature including literature reviews, qualitative studies, implementation studies, viewpoints, and commentaries    • Focuses on the use or implementation of clinical decision support, health technology, or person - centered care implementation in the United States  • Describes approaches used to measure workflow or patient lifeflow impact of CDS interventions via the following dimensions: workflow context, uptake, use, or subjective value • Addresses PC CDS workflow archetypes, including but not limited to visit logistics (e.g., check -in), care plan development, shared decision making, encounter discharge, patient self - management and assessment, and their subcomponents • Does not address a clinical decision sup port intervention or technologies that could be applied to improve PC CDS  • Does not discuss measures to assess clinician workflow or patient lifeflow   • Does not include human patients (e.g., veterinary studies; algorithms or provider -focused tools that do not involve some element of patient interaction)  • Source is not peer -reviewed literature (e.g., grey literature, blogs, books, news articles, discussion forum, webinars)  • Describes clinical outcomes measures, including measures related to population health   
 27 References 1 Nundy S, Cooper LA, Mate KS. The quintuple aim for health care improvement: A new imperative to advance health equity. JAMA . Published online January 21, 2022. 2 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Patient-Centered Clinical Decision Support. AHRQ. Accessed February 20, 2023. Retrieved from https://cds.ahrq.gov/cdsic/patientcentered. 3 Dullabh P, Sandberg SF, Heaney -Huls K, Hovey LS, Lobach DF, Boxwala A, Desai PJ, Berliner E, Dymek C, Harrison MI, Swiger J, Sittig DF. Challenges and opportunities for advancing patient- centered clinical decision support: findings from a horizon scan. J Am Med Inform Assoc . 2022 Jun 14;29(7):1233-1243. 4 Zheng K, Ratwani RM, Adler -Milstein J. Studying workflow and w orkarounds in e lectronic health record–s upported work to i mprove health system performance. Ann Intern Med. 2020;172:S116-S122. [Epub 2 June 2020]. doi:10.7326/M19-0871 5 Ozkaynak M, Valdez R, Holden RJ, Weiss J. Infinicare framework for integrated understanding of health-related activities in clinical and daily -living contexts. Health Syst (Basingstoke). 2017;7(1):66-78. Published 2017 Nov 7. doi:10.1080/20476965.2017.1390060 6 Beach MC, Keruly J, Moore RD. Is the quality of the patient- provider relationship associated with better adherence and health outcomes for patients with HIV? J Gen Intern Med. 2006;21: 661– 665. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-1497.2006.00399.x 7 Sutton RT, Pincock D, Baumgart DC, Sadowski DC, Fedorak RN, Kroeker KI. An overview of clinical decision support systems: benefits, risks, and strategies for success. NPJ Digit Med. 2020;3:17. Published 2020 Feb 6. doi:10.1038/s41746-020 -0221-y 8 Patient Empowerment Workgroup. HL7 Informative Document: Patient Contributed Data, Release 1. Health Level Seven International (HL7). Published September 2022. 9 Adler-Milstein J, Nong P. Early experiences with patient generated health data: health system and patient perspectives. Journal of the American Medical Informatics AssociationJAMIA . 2019;26(10):952- 959. 10 Dullabh P, Heaney -Huls K, Lobach DF, et al. The technical landscape for patient-centered CDS: progress, gaps, and challenges. J Am Med Inform A ssoc. 2022;29(6):1101-1105. doi:10.1093/jamia/ocac029 11 Pham MT, Rajić A, Greig JD, Sargeant JM, Papadopoulos A, McEwen SA. A scoping review of scoping reviews: advancing the approach and enhancing the consistency. Res Synth Methods . 2014 Dec;5(4):371-85. doi: 10.1002/jrsm.1123 
 28 12 Learning Health System (LHS) Collaborative and Veterans Administration (VA). Generic Health Service Blueprint, Version 0.5. Accessed January 24, 2023. Retrieved from https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1m5cGIKkJFjian4W0PP8- 5Wt5xgh8VCvlyGrTDxH8DyM/edit#gid=1651917924 13 Agency for Healthcare Quality and Research. Patient Journey and Service Blueprint How Tos. Accessed on April 4, 2023. Retrieved from https://cmext.ahrq.gov/confluence/display/PUB/Patient+Journey+and+Service+Blueprint+How+Tos 14 Kiger ME, Varpio L. Thematic analysis of qualitative data: AMEE Guide No. 131. Med Teach. 2020;42(8):846-854. doi:10.1080/0142159X.2020.1755030 15 Cain C , Haque S. Organizational workflow and its impact on work quality. In: Hughes RG, eds. Patient Safety and Quality: An Evidence-Based Handbook for Nurses. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; 2008. 16 Unertl KM, Novak LL, Johnson KB, Lorenzi NM. Traversing the many paths of workflow research: developing a conceptual framework of workflow terminology through a systematic literature review. J Am Med Inform Assoc . 2010;17(3):265-273. doi:10.1136/jamia.2010.004333 17 Zheng K, Ciemins E, Lanham H, Lindberg C, Man D. Examining the Relationship Between Health IT and Ambulatory Care Workflow Redesign. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. 2015. 18 Cohen DJ, Keller SR, Hayes GR, Dorr DA, Ash JS, Sittig DF. Developing a model for understanding patient collection of observations of daily living: A qualitative meta-synthesis of the Project HealthDesign Program. Pers Ubiquitous Comput. 2015;19(1):91-102. 19 Eslava -Schmalbach J, Mosquera P, Alzate JP, et al. Considering health equity when moving from evidence-based guideline recommendations to implementation: a case study from an upper middle income country on the GRADE approach. Health Policy Plan. 2017;32(10):1492 20 Dendere R, Slade C, Burton-Jones A, Sullivan C, Staib A, Janda M. Patient p ortals facilitating engagement with inpatient electronic medical records: A s ystematic review . J Med Internet Res . 2019;21(4):e12779. Published 2019 Apr 11. doi:10.2196/12779 21 Jimison H, Gorman P, Woods S, et al. Barriers and drivers of health information technology use for the elderly, chronically ill, and underserved. Evid Rep Technol Assess (Full Rep) . 2008;(175):1-1422. 22 Brooker, P. Computational ethnography: A view from sociology. Big Data Soc . 2022; 9(1). https://doi.org/10.1177/20539517211069892 
 29 23 Zheng K, Hanauer DA, Weibel N, Agha Z. Computational e thnography: Automated and unobtrusive means for c ollecting data in situ for human–c omputer interaction evaluation studies. Cognitive Informatics for Biomedicine. 2015;:111– 40. 24 Davis FD, Bagozzi RP, Warshaw PR. User acceptance of computer technology: A comparison of two theoretical models. Management Science. 1989;35(8): 982– 1003. doi:10.1287/mnsc.35.8.982. 25 Tsang S, Royse CF, Terkawi AS. Guidelines for developing, translating, and validating a questionnaire in perioperative and pain medicine. Saudi J Anaesth. 2017;11(Suppl 1):S80-S89. doi:10.4103/sja.SJA_203_17 26 O'Connor AM. Validation of a decisional conflict scale. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jan- Mar;15(1):25- 30. 27 Krupat E, Frankel R, Stein T, Irish J. The Four Habits Coding Scheme: validation of an instrument to assess clinicians' communication behavior. Patient Educ Couns . 2006;62(1):38-45. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2005.04.015 28 Elwyn G, Edwards A, Wensing M , et al. Shared decision making: developing the OPTION scale for measuring patient involvement. BMJ Quality & Safety. 2003;12(2):93-99. 29 Guimond P, Bunn H, O'Connor AM, Jacobsen MJ, Tait VK, Drake ER, Graham ID, Stacey D, Elmslie T. Validation of a tool to assess health practitioners' decision support and communication skills. Patient Educ Couns . 2003 Jul;50(3):235-45. 30 Stacey D, Taljaard M, Drake ER, O'Connor AM. Audit and feedback using the brief Decision Support Analysis Tool (DSAT -10) to evaluate nurse-standar dized patient encounters. Patient Education and Counseling. 2008;73:519-525. 31 Degner LF, Sloan JA, Venkatesh P. The c ontrol preferences scale. Can J Nurs Res . 1997;29(3):21- 43. 32 Janisse T. Relationship of a p hysician's well-being to i nteractions with p atients: Practices of the highest performing physicians on the a rt of m edicine patient survey. Perm J . 2008;12(4):70-76. doi:10.7812/TPP/08-041 33 Curtis JR, Patrick DL, Caldwell E, Greenlee H, Collier AC. The quality of patient—doctor communication about end-of-life care: a study of patients with advanced AIDS and their primary care clinicians. AIDS . 1999;13(9):1123– 1131. 34 Edwards A, Elwyn G, Hood K, et al. The development of COMRADE-- a patient-based outcome measure to evaluate the effectiveness of risk communication and treatment decision making in consultations. Patient Educ Couns . 2003;50(3):311-322. doi:10.1016/s0738-3991(03)00055-7 
 30 35 Stanton N, Salmon P, Walker G, et al. Mental workload assessment method. Human factors methods: a practical guide for engineering and design. Great Britain: Ashgate; 2005. p. 301-64. 36 Ghanbary Sartang A, Ashnagar M, Habibi E, Sadeghi S. Evaluation of Rating Scale Mental Effort (RSME) effectiveness for mental workload assessment in nurses. J Occup Health Epidemiol . 2016;5(4): 211-217. http://johe.rums.ac.ir/article-1-223-en.html 37 Vidullch MA, Ward GF, Schueren J. Using the Subjective Workload Dominance (SWORD) t echnique for projective workload assessment. Human Factors . 1991;33(6):677– 691. https://doi.org/10.1177/001872089103300605 38 Reynolds CR, Kamphaus RW. RIAS. PAR. Accessed February 20, 2023. Retrieved from https://www.parinc.com/Products/Pkey/364. 39 Elwyn G, Barr PJ, Grande SW, Thompson R, Walsh T, Ozanne EM. Developing CollaboRATE: A fast and frugal patient‐ reported measure of shared decision making in clinical encounters . Patient Educ Couns . 2013;93:102‐ 107. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pec.2013.05.009. 40 Barr PJ, Thompson R, Walsh T, Grande SW, Ozanne EM, Elwyn G. The psychometric properties of CollaboRATE: A fast and frugal patient‐ reported measure of the shared decision‐ making process . J Med Internet Res . 2014;16:e2 https://doi.org/10.2196/jmir.3085. 41 Darden CA, Ginter EJ, and Gazda GM. Life-skills development scale – adolescent form: T he theoretical and therapeutic relevance of life-skills. J Ment Health Couns . 1996;18:142-163. 42 Valentine KD, Vo H, Fowler FJ, Brodney S, Barry MJ, Sepucha KR. Development and e valuation of the shared decision making process scale: A s hort patient-reported measure. Med Decis Making. 2021;41(2):108-119. doi:10.1177/0272989X20977878 43 Smith MY, Winkel G, Egert J, Diaz -Wionczek M, DuHamel KN. Patient-physician communication in the context of persistent pain: Validation of a modified version of the patients' Perceived Involvement in Care Scale. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2006;32(1):71-81. doi:10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2006.01.007 44 Hoelscher D, McBride S. Usability and the rapid deployable infectious disease decision support system. CIN: Computers, Informatics, Nursing. 2020;38(10): 490-499. 45 Kawamoto K, Kukhareva PV, Weir C, et al. Establishing a multidisciplinary initiative for interoperable electronic health record innovations at an academic medical center. JAMIA Open. 2021;4(3):ooab041. 46 Laing S, Mercer J. Improved preventive care clinical decision making efficiency: L everaging a point- of-care clinical decision support system. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak . 2021;21(1):1-8. 47 Beal LL, Kolman JM, Jones SL, Khleif A, Menser T. Quantifying patient portal use: Systematic review of utilization metrics. JMIR. 2021;23(2):e23493. 
 31 48 Poprzeczny AJ, Stocking K, Showell M, Duffy JMN. Patient decision aids to facilitate shared decision making in o bstetrics and g ynecology: A s ystematic review and m eta-analysis. Obstet Gynecol. 2020;135(2):444-451. doi:10.1097/AOG.0000000000003664 49 Martínez -Alonso M, Carles -Lavila M, Pérez -Lacasta MJ on behalf of the InforMa Group, et al. Assessment of the effects of decision aids about breast cancer screening: A systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ Open . 2017;7:e016894. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-016894 50 Larsen MB, Stokholm R, Kirkegaard P, Laursen HS, Gabel P, Andersen B. Making decisions on your own: Self-administered decision aids about colorectal cancer screening - A systematic review and meta-analyses. Patient Educ Couns . 2022;105(3):534-546. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2021.07.035 51 Coronado-Vázquez V, Gómez -Salgado J, de Los Monteros JCE, García-Colinas MA. Shared decision- support tools in hospital emergency departments: A systematic review. J Emerg Nurs . 2019;45(4):386-393. 52 Yen RW, Smith J, Engel J, et al. A s ystematic review and m eta-a nalysis of p atient decision aids for socially disadvantaged populations: Update from the International Patient Decision Aid Standards (IDPAS). Med Decis Making. 2021;41(7):870-896. doi:10.1177/0272989X211020317 53 Scalia P, Durand MA, Berkowitz JL, Ramesh NP Faber, MJ, Kremer J, Elwyn G. The impact and utility of encounter patient decision aids: Systematic review, meta-analysis and narrative synthesis. Patient Educ Couns . 2019;102(5):817– 841. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pec.2018.12.020 54 Wan PK, Satybaldy A, Huang L, Holtskog H, Nowostawski M. Reducing a lert fatigue by s haring low- level alerts with patients and e nhancing collaborative decision making using blockchain technology: Scoping review and p roposed framework (MedAlert). J Med Internet Res . 2020 Oct 28;22(10):e22013. doi: 10.2196/22013. PMID: 33112253; PMCID: PMC7657729. 55 Paskins Z, Torres Roldan VD, Hawarden AW, et al. Quality and effectiveness of osteoporosis treatment decision aids: A systematic review and environmental scan. Osteoporos Int. 2020;31(10):1837-1851. doi:10.1007/s00198-020 -05479-w 56 LeBlanc A, Kenny DA, O'Connor AM, Légaré F. Decisional conflict in patients and their physicians: A dyadic approach to shared decision making. Med Decis Making. 2009;29(1):61-68. doi:10.1177/0272989X08327067 57 Torres Roldan VD, Brand-McCarthy SR, Ponce OJ, et al. Shared d ecision making tools for p eople facing s troke p revention strategies in atrial fibrillation: A s ystematic review and e nvironmental scan. Med Decis Making. 2021;41(5):540– 549. https://doi.org/10.1177/0272989X211005655 
 32 58 Forbes CC, Finlay A, McIntosh M, Siddiquee S, Short CE. A systematic review of the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of online supportive care interventions targeting men with a history of prostate cancer. J Cancer Surviv . 2019;13(1):75-96. 59 Duckworth M, Adelman J, Belategui K, et al. Assessing the effectiveness of engaging patients and their families in the th ree-step fall prevention process a cross modalities of an e vidence-b ased fall prevention toolkit: An i mplementation s cience study. J Med Internet Res . 2019;21(1):e10008. Published 2019 Jan 21. doi:10.2196/10008 60 Barrera FJ, Ponce OJ, Espinoza NR, Alvarez ‐Villalobos NA, et al. Interventions supporting cost conversations between patients and clinicians: A systematic review. Int J Clin Pract. 2021;75(5):e14037. 61 Weernink M, van Til JA, Witteman HO, Fraenkel L, IJzerman MJ. Individual v alue clarification methods based on c onjoint analysis: A s ystematic review of common practice in task design, statistical analysis, and p resentation of results. Med Decis Making. 2018;38(6):746– 755. https://doi.org/10.1177/0272989X18765185 62 Zheng K, Guo MH, Hanauer DA. Using the time and motion method to study clinical work processes and workflow: M ethodological inconsistencies and a call for standardized research. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2011;18(5 ):704– 10. 63 Ammenwerth E, Hoerbst A, Lannig S, Mueller G, Siebert U, Schnel l-Inderst P. Effects of adult patient portals on patient empowerment and health-related outcomes: A systematic review. MEDINFO 2019: Health and Wellbeing e- Networks for All. 2019;():1106-1110. 64 England BR, Barber CEH, Bergman M, Ranganath VK, Suter LG, Michaud K. Adaptation of American College of Rheumatology rheumatoid arthritis d isease a ctivity and functional status measures for telehealth visits. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) . 2021;73(12):1809-1814. doi:10.1002/acr.24429 65 Wilbanks BA, McMullan SP. A review of m easuring the c ognitive workload of e lectronic health records. Comput Inform Nurs . 2018;36(12):579-588. doi:10.1097/CIN.0000000000000469 66 Peng Y, Wang H, Fang Q, et al. Effectiveness of m obile applications on medication adherence in adults with c hronic diseases: A s ystematic review and m eta-a nalysis. J Manag Care Spec Pharm . 2020;26(4):550-561. doi:10.18553/jmcp.2020.26.4.550 67 Paydar S, Em ami H, Asadi F, Moghaddasi H, Hosseini A. Functions and o utcomes of p ersonal health records for patients with c hronic diseases: A s ystematic review. Perspect Health Inf Manag. 2021;18(Spring):1l. Published 2021 Mar 15. 68 Snyder CF, Wu AW, Miller RS, Jensen RE, Bantug ET, Wolff AC. The role of informatics in promoting patient-centered care. Cancer J . 2011;17(4):211-218. doi:10.1097/PPO.0b013e318225ff89 
 33 69 Delone WH, McLean ER. The DeLone and McLean m odel of i nformation systems s uccess: A t en- year update. JMIS . 2003;19(4):9-30, DOI: 10.1080/07421222.2003.11045748 70 Greenhalgh T, Wherton J, Papoutsi C, et al. Beyond a doption: A n ew framework for t heorizing and evaluating nonadoption, abandonment, and c hallenges to the s cale-u p, spread, and s ustainabil ity of health and c are technologies. J Med Internet Res . 2017;19(11):e367. Published 2017 Nov 1. doi:10.2196/jmir.8775 71 Yusof MM, Kuljis J, Papazafeiropoulou A, Stergioulas LK. An evaluation framework for Health Information Systems: H uman, organization and technology -fit factors (HOT-fit). Int J Med Inform . 2008;77(6):386-398. doi:10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2007.08.011 