June 16, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS–0042–NC,
Mail Stop C4–26–05
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244–1850
HealthTechRFI@cms.hhs.gov
Reference: Document ID No. CMS-2025-0050-0031; “Request for Information: Health
Technology Ecosystem.”
To Whom It May Concern:
Public comments for “Effective and responsible adoption of technology can empower patients to
make better decisions for their health and well-being. This request for information (RFI) seeks
input from the public regarding the market of digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
as well as the state of data interoperability and broader health technology infrastructure.
Responses to this RFI may be used to inform CMS and ASTP/ONC efforts to lead infrastructure
progress to cultivate this market, increasing beneficiary access to effective digital capabilities
needed to make informed health decisions, and increasing data availability for all stakeholders
contributing to health outcomes.”
Interoperability and access to patient data depend on a provider’s capability and capacity to access
and use data. Many providers, particularly primary care providers, rely on electronic medical
record (EMR) providers and State-run health data exchanges. The Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) should address the regulation of EMRs that charge providers excessive
fees for interoperability upgrades in new version releases, implementation of EMRs in primary
care practices that have little to no incentive to upgrade their EMR and only face high costs, and
requirements for digital health products such as wireless blood pressure cuffs and home
pharmaceutical dispensing products to integrate with EMRs. Often, hospital EMRs do not integrate
with non-hospital EMRs without vertical financial integration of health systems, which is often
not the case in rural areas. CMS could address this lack of integration or data exchange in
collaboration with the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP). In addition, older adults
face many barriers to use of electronic products, such as multifactor authentication, and increasing
requirements for caregiver access in digital health products could enable families to help their
older adults be successful in benefiting from digital health products and web-accessible EMR
information.
Sincerely,
Econometrica, Inc.
Cyrus Baghelai
President/CEO