Altera Digital Health, Inc., Response to
HHS RFI: AI & Clinical Care (February 2026)
HHS seeks feedback on ways in which these approaches can be most effectively applied to support the
rapid adoption and use of AI in clinical care, to foster public trust and confidence in modern technology
solutions, to reduce uncertainty that impedes AI innovation, and to align federal incentives so that AI is
deployed in ways that enhance productivity, reduce burden, lower health care costs, and improve health
outcomes for patients, caregivers, and communities.
General – Research & Development
Topic: Input on ways in which HHS may invest in research and development (including public-private
partnerships and cooperative research and development agreements (CRADAs)) to integrate AI in care
delivery and create new, long-term market opportunities that improve the health and wellbeing of all
Americans.
Altera Response: "Deflationary" efficiency requires a bi-directional flow – providing funding to incite the
acceleration of FHIR write capabilities would result in meaningful acceleration of first- and third-party
agentic AI capabilities with reliable and secure vectors for integration.
SECTION II: SPECIFIC QUESTIONS
Question 1
What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its adoption and
use in clinical care?
Altera Response: We strongly support the ASTP/ONC's HTI-5 proposal to remove the "Source Attribute"
and "Intervention Risk Management" requirements from 45 CFR 170.315(b)(11). These requirements
disproportionately burdened "Operational AI" (billing, scheduling) which poses minimal safety risk.
Barriers to AI innovation and adoption include regulatory uncertainty, data quality, insufficient payment
incentives, unclear ROI, and user readiness.
The current regulatory environment specific to AI is confusing to both technology providers and health IT
users. There are questions regarding how existing federal frameworks apply to clinical AI that is not
classified as a device versus FDA-regulated Software-as-a-Medical Device (SaMD), as well as ambiguity
stemming from the incongruity between the White House Executive Order discouraging state passage of AI-
related laws and the ongoing legislative activity in that area. HHS’ stated objective of establishing a
predictable, proportionate regulatory approach that protects patients while supporting an innovation-
friendly environment would be best supported by a consistent, predictable, risk-based Federal framework

(passed by Congress). Piecemeal publications, such as the recent FDA enforcement discretion on Clinical
Decision Support issued on January 6, 2026, are helpful but insufficient.
Not all participants in the healthcare ecosystem comply with the standards required for Certified Health IT.
This creates a barrier to data exchange that is fundamental to the use of AI. Achieving the outcomes
desired by the HHS RFI relies on the documentation and use of trustworthy, interoperable data in the
creation of AI tools, as well as transparent evaluation of those tools on an ongoing basis. We also note that
in the absence of federal transparency mandates or a clear regulatory framework specific to AI use in
health care, dominant EHR incumbents are stepping in as "Shadow Regulators," using the lack of federal
vetting or oversight as a pretext to block third-party AI apps under the guise of "patient safety." A strong,
Federal framework would protect against this type of market abuse.
AI adoption by healthcare providers can take many forms, and those options will expand significantly in the
coming years. Some of those AI tools will be easily selected thanks to the ROI that can be demonstrated by
their use – either financial savings or clinical benefit – but there are numerous other use cases that will not
primarily benefit the users of the software or even their larger organization. Use cases that are focused on
research, as an example, which will rely on collection of health data through interoperability mechanisms
could be slowed if payment policies don’t incite corresponding behaviors by the provider organizations.
Legacy fee-for-service payment models rarely provide sufficient financial payment to cover investment in
innovative technologies, but reimbursement mechanisms that reward validated outcomes and burden
reduction would do a lot to stimulate provider demand.
It is also clear from conversations with our clients (hospitals of all sizes and larger ambulatory physician
practices) that clinicians are very interested in AI on a theoretical basis, but they are focused on identifying
AI that is usable (fits well within their EHR workflow), makes recommendations but not decisions, and
provide trustworthy, explainable information that can be investigated for the context behind the
intervention. Physicians, other clinicians, and the administrative staff all need increased trust in the safety
of the tools, as well as assurance that those developing the software will remain committed to continuous
improvement and retraining, given the rapid evolution of the technologies that will continue for the
foreseeable future.
A thoughtful, more comprehensive legal and regulatory framework addressing all the concerns about AI
adoption would go a long way to spur both development and use of the new technologies.
Question 2
What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to
incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or
programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please
provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
Altera Response:
HHS' payment policies and programs are the single largest determinant of how health care is delivered in
the United States, often times with unintended consequences. It is critical to ensure that the potential

promises of AI innovations are not diminished through inertia in payment model reform by HHS and instead
that such payment systems are modernized to meet the needs of a changing healthcare system.
Given that provider organizations will be the ones investing in AI tools used within both their clinical and
administrative systems, payment modernization must be completed to reflect those expenditures that will
benefit patients and the health system as a whole. CMS should consider targeted add-on payments and
pathways specific to advanced alternative payment models (APMs) that reward the deployment of AI tools
that improve clinical outcomes and help reduce unnecessary expenditures. Without such incentive
structures being rolled out by CMS, financially constrained providers will have a very hard time making the
step forward to AI adoption.
We also suggest, more specifically, that CMS recognize "AI-Assisted Documentation" as a quality
improvement activity that reduces provider burnout. Reward for the use of patient-facing AI tools that
empower patients and even reduce the volume of visits or burden accessing information should also be
part of new advanced alternative payment models rolled out by CMS. Further, we believe that there is an
opportunity to roll out not just payments for new diagnostic devices or AI adoption but also so-called
"Deflationary AI" – tools that reduce administrative overhead (e.g., AI Scribes, Autonomous Coding). HHS
should evaluate the best way to incite both.
We also recommend that Federal investments be made in benchmarking datasets, reference
implementations, and safety testbeds to improve model transparency, external validation, and
reproducibility. The importance of research, ongoing evaluation, and public–private partnerships to AI
innovation and market maturity are appropriately cited in HHS’ RFI. We also suggest that investments in
shared testing sandboxes (coupled with common reporting templates) would add real value for the
industry in its work developing AI tools, as well as in building the necessary trust amongst organizations
that will be evaluating and using the new AI options.
We also note there are two information blocking-related factors that should be reviewed by ASTP/ONC and
OIG to assess whether there is behavior taking place specific to AI model development and
implementation that needs to be addressed within the 21st Century Cures context.
1. Use of the "Security Exception" (45 CFR 171.203): The Security Exception is being named by
some EHR vendors in their decision to deny connectivity of AI apps. We suggest that ASTP/ONC
clarify that "Objective Evidence" of a specific technical threat must be demonstrated before such a
decision can be made in the context of the Security Exception. As it stands, "reasonable belief" is
too low a bar that permits gatekeeping by vendors who are protecting their turf or trying to limit
competition with their own AI offerings.
2. Clarify "Data Access for Training": ASTP/ONC, in the context of information blocking should
explicitly state that "access, exchange, and use" of EHI includes the right to bulk export data for the
purpose of training AI models for limited use (i.e., clinical usage by the health system only).

Question 3
For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise novel legal and
implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability structures (e.g.,
relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel legal and implementation
issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to help address them?
Altera Response: Clarity around liability between AI deployers (EHRs), companies developing AI models
that are integrated with EHRs, companies developing independent AI models, and providers is an emergent
issue that is a steady source of uncertainty for all stakeholders.
A central issue requiring clarity is where liability rests when AI-generated recommendations inform care
decisions. Because AI tools accessible within or in conjunction with an EHR serve in advisory or assistive
roles and do not constitute regulated medical devices, the boundaries of responsibility can be ambiguous.
It is really critical that all legal and procedural structures ensure that assignments of accountability align
with real-world roles and capabilities, including preservation of clinicians’ independent judgment.
Another challenge is presented by the contracting and indemnification frameworks needed for adaptive or
continuously learning AI systems. Traditional contracting models do not adequately address issues such as
performance warranties, update obligations, or the allocation of risks associated with model drift and re-
training. In particular, small provider organizations who do not have the legal resources to negotiate
unfamiliar and complex AI-related contract terms will need guidance from HHS or other Agencies.
Non-device AI systems also present privacy and security complexities that differ from those of traditional
clinical software. Ambiguity persists around what types of data use are permissible under HIPAA for model
training, evaluation, and post-deployment monitoring. HHS could greatly reduce uncertainty by clarifying
permitted pathways for using de-identified or limited datasets, articulating requirements for strong de-
identification methods, and encouraging privacy-preserving models such as federated learning or
evaluation.
These complexities underscore the importance of coordinated, consistent federal leadership in the health
AI space. HHS should take rapid steps to reduce uncertainty and build the foundation for safe, responsible
and trustworthy use of non-device AI tools across the healthcare ecosystem.
Question 4
For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods (pre- and post-
deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and human-centered evaluation
methods for clinical care? Should HHS further support these processes? If so, which mechanisms
would be most impactful (e.g., contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and/or prize
competitions)?
Altera Response: Prior to deployment to end users, developers and implementers of non-medical device
AI tools should conduct structured intended-use analysis, external validation across both representative
provider and patient populations, and human-factors testing in live or simulated EHR workflows. Post-

deployment, ongoing monitoring for calibration, drift, fairness impacts and alert fatigue is
essential. Additionally, because of the rapid evolution of model data and model logic, guidance or
requirements specific to ongoing training would be helpful.
Question 5
How can HHS best support private sector activities (e.g., accreditation, certification, industry-driven
testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in clinical care?
Altera Response: Private-sector EHR vendors have worked – given the lack of a reliable AI regulatory
framework – to establish internal governance, testing, and safety protocols. Some healthcare clients also
request safeguards and data testing before proceeding with adopting AI tools and functionality, but
questions they ask and what they expect in terms of assurances currently vary significantly (if they exist at
all).
We are eager to participate in conversations with HHS and other industry stakeholders about ideas
including voluntary accreditation, where ASTP/ONC’s EHR certification program can appropriately address
areas requiring consistency or a standards-based approach, and testing mechanisms for clinical AI. The
nascent conversations already underway would likely be more successful if HHS recognized and aligned
with industry-led initiatives to evaluate robustness, transparency, and interoperability.
Question 6
Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and cost expectations
and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools would have the greatest potential to
improve health care outcomes, give new insights on quality, and help reduce costs?
Response: No response
Question 7
Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care organizations have the most
influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the primary administrative hurdles to the
adoption of AI in clinical care?
Altera Response: The industry would greatly benefit from Federal guidance or regulation addressing
documentation expectations, lifecycle monitoring, and governance models. The entire framework should
be based on a risk-based approach reflecting the differences between AI that assists in clinical decision
making vs. tools that aim to take over administrative processes and reduce those burdens for healthcare
organizations.

Question 8
Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and accelerate
the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types, data standards, and
benchmarking tools.
Altera Response: Successful maximization of AI adoption in a way that delivers on its great potential is
dependent on the quality and efficient exchange of interoperable data across the health IT ecosystem. AI
tools cannot function without the input of structured, standards-based data to generate reliable and
equitable analysis and/or recommendations. Ensuring transparency of data provenance and
standardization of the data exchanged, alongside supporting model metadata capture directly within EHR
systems, would improve the reliability of external validation efforts. Ensuring the establishment of national
benchmarking datasets, as well as a standardized evaluation framework against which models can be
measured with some regular cadence, would go a long with in helping developers, researchers, and
providers assess model performance across diverse populations and environments and both build and
retain trust in the new systems.
Question 9
What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see addressed by the adoption
and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do patients and caregivers have related to the
adoption and use of AI in clinical care?
Altera Response: Patients and caregivers alike, while optimistic about the significant benefits that can
come for both providers and patients from the use of AI, also consistently raise concerns about
transparency regarding the logic being used by AI models, patient privacy, possible bias in the models, the
option to opt out of AI use in their care, and accountability when errors occur. All of these are fundamental
issues that must be addressed not only now but on an ongoing basis to maintain public trust.
Question 10
Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate the adoption of AI as
part of clinical care?
Altera Response: HHS should prioritize research into any topic that increases awareness about the safety
and accuracy of adoption of health IT: issues of bias in model data, the impacts of human-centered
usability factors, repeated real-world safety evaluations, and ongoing performance monitoring to support
necessary adjustments. We also support investment in pragmatic trial designs and implementation
science approaches that measure AI’s true impact on outcomes, clinician workload, equitable application
of the technology, and related total costs of care that may be changed by AI use. Because cost-benefit
analyses and burden-reduction measures are still emerging fields in AI evaluation, federally supported
research in this area would significantly help to inform sustainable adoption at scale.

We also suggest that HHS fund research and studies into other returns from AI systems: for example, what
are the benefits seen in patient care plan adherence attributed to the use of ambient listening AI, the
increased time that providers are able to spend face-to-face with patients vs. looking at their laptop, or the
increased speed of claims denial resolution coming from AI tools that reduce administrative burden for
providers? This quantification of value has proven very difficult in the industry, but clarity around this value
would serve to accelerate adoption of AI as yet additional demonstration of it return on investment (both
financial and clinical).
Question 10.a
Are there published findings about the impact of adopted AI tools and their use in clinical care?
Response: No response
Question 10.b
How does the literature approach the costs, benefits, and transfers of using AI as part of clinical
care?
Response: No response