Question Feedback
Section B – Patients & Caregivers
1. Patient Needs
1. Patient Needs
• Digital tools: web, mobile or other software applications, potentially leveraging sensors, wearables, or other hardware.
• Digital health products: defined as digital tools that support individual health needs.
• Health management applications: Digital tools that leverage patients' data and other information to support patients with
health decision-making.
• Care navigation applications: Digital tools that help patients identify, select, and access providers or auxiliary care services.
• Personal health record apps: Software applications that collect and organize an individual's health records and provider
encounter data for viewing, sharing, and usage in digital health products.
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would
help you understand and manage your (or your loved ones) Today, patients are often required to navigate several individual
health needs, as well as the actions you should take? point solutions—each on separate platforms or apps—to
manage their health and wellness. This fragmented experience
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for creates unnecessary friction for both patients and caregivers.
your or your loved ones' health that can be enabled by digital The problem is made worse by the lack of consistency among
health products? the various patient-facing tools, including payer apps, provider
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, portals, and EHRs.
what are the top things you would ask them to help with? In
your response, please consider tasks that could be supported A fully integrated digital health platform has the potential to
or facilitated by software solutions in the future. transform this experience by consolidating the entire care
journey—from finding providers to managing chronic
conditions—into a seamless, user-friendly ecosystem. Such a
solution would empower caregivers to manage multiple family
member profiles within a single interface, supported by
intelligent features that surface personalized insights and guide
next best actions at both the individual and family level (e.g.,
coordinated scheduling, shared medical history, genomic

insights).
Ideal features would include the following, all supported by an
intelligent digital agent that provides multilingual, cross-channel
support (web, text, voice), that automates care navigation, data
collection and entry, and other routine tasks:
• Customized care pathways for chronic condition
management and personalized health journeys
(oncology, surgical recovery, etc.).
• Longitudinal health tracking to monitor clinical indicators
and overall health scores over time.
• Clear, easy-to-understand guidance paired with
proactive, omni-channel reminders to support treatment
adherence.
• Seamless ingestion of third-party health data,
transformed into actionable insights and next steps.
These interactions generate a legal medical record that
needs to integrate seamlessly into the EHR.
• Tailored Clinical Itineraries across primary, ancillary, and
specialty care services—ensuring appropriate
prerequisites have been met to maximize appointment
and procedure outcomes.
• Voice and text-based scheduling prompts, with timely
reminders for appointments, screenings, health risk
assessments, and follow-ups. These prompts can be
initiated by the patient or proactively triggered by the
digital assistant based on data in the medical record
(e.g., referral order, health history, etc.)

It is essential that the experience be driven by a centralized data
source to guarantee consistent value for end users as patients
move between payor, provider, and other third-party
applications.
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved A single comprehensive solution does not exist today. Even
ones' health information in one location (for example, in a when clinical data is shared with patients, the responsibility to
single patient portal or another software system)? interpret that information—such as clinical notes or discharge
a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided? instructions—often falls solely on them. The language used is
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be rarely in lay terms, making it difficult for patients to understand
most valuable to use one portal or system to access all such what the information means or how to act on it. As a result,
health information? patients are expected to take the “next best step” in their care,
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific despite often lacking the resources, access, or guidance needed
test results, that were unavailable? What are the obstacles to to do so effectively.
accessing your own or your loved ones' complete health For instance, advising an overweight diabetic patient to simply
information electronically and using it for managing health "eat healthier" or "lose weight" is not enough. Without proper
conditions or finding the best care (for example, limitations in education on the relationship between food and health, or
functionality, user friendliness, or access to basic technology access to affordable, nutritious food—especially in the face of
infrastructure)? rising costs—such guidance is unlikely to lead to meaningful
change.
What many patients need is a clearer, more personalized
understanding of their health. This includes seeing test results
contextualized against a baseline that is relevant to them—
recognizing that many clinical guidelines are not built on data
from culturally diverse populations, nor do they account for

cultural factors that may influence health baselines.
Patients would benefit from clearly defined health goals, along
with a personalized plan to achieve them. This should
encompass lab results, medications and supplements,
recommended screenings or risk assessments, and an overall
health score that trends over time. Additionally, being able to
view correlated health data from household members—such as
weight or blood pressure—could provide valuable insights into
shared environmental or behavioral factors impacting health.
Patients should not need to know which application to use to
access their information. Instead, they should be able to
seamlessly access essential health and wellness data from any
application or entry point they engage with throughout their
care journey.
PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or A comprehensive solution for Medicare beneficiaries does not
personal health record apps that would be useful to Medicare exist today. That solution would include similar functionality
beneficiaries and their caregivers? described above, with the addition of specific benefit
information and prompts.
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you
are aware of today? The existence of an application that has a complete view of any
a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe individual patient from all potential sources of information
they do not exist yet? (health, lifestyle, etc.). Family medical history continues to be
b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely underpopulated and underutilized dataset. The ability to
positioned to offer? streamline the collection of relevant medical history for family
members across different health systems or EMRs is essential.
(a) While progress has been made, interoperability continues to
be a major barrier; we are still far from achieving a
comprehensive, universal, and actionable view of patient and

family health.
(b) The timely review and approval of reimbursable codes is
essential to accelerate adoption and support the advancement
of emerging solutions.
(c) There is EHR product consolidation on the health system side
however, when evaluating the individual practices, the market is
diverse and interoperability is significantly hindered with lack of
close loop workflows for critical functions like patient referrals;
imaging etc.
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient CMS should not play a role in approving digital health products.
and caregiver interest in these digital health products? However, CMS and its partners can take the following steps to
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving help drive adoption of digital health products:
digital health products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or
• Provide public education via Medicare.gov, community
impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in the sense
health centers, and other campaigns. Use trusted
of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if
channels to explain the benefits and incentivize adoption
there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy
• Partner with community organizations (e.g., senior
changes, or program design changes can increase patient and
centers, AARP, and local nonprofits) to promote the
caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example,
value of digital health and increase reach to diverse
enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or
populations.
new beneficiary communications)?
• Encourage reimbursement for Hospital at Home, RPM,
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality
and other Digital Health programs that shorten length of
CMS and provider generated data on patients?
stay, and reduce readmissions and unnecessary ED
utilization.
• Support policies that reimburse for time spent using
digital tools, especially when they result in improved
outcomes.

• Explore incentive programs (e.g., reduced premiums, gift
cards) for regular use of certain tools or health goals
achieved through them.
• Establish public-private sector collaborations to launch a
marketplace where developers can publish their
solutions and EHR vendors can create standardized
connections.
The following changes would enable timely access to high
quality CMS and provider generated data on patients:
• Invest in cloud-based architecture for faster processing,
storage, and sharing of Medicare and Medicaid claims,
encounter, and clinical data.
• Reduce data lag in CMS claims data from months to days
through automation and advanced analytics.
• Develop common data standards (e.g., FHIR, USCDI) to
ensure data consistency and usability.
• Enforce real-time data exchange requirements between
EHRs, CMS systems, and third-party apps via APIs.
For Medicare beneficiaries, point solutions remain problematic –
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health addressing a limited range of healthcare issues. Digital health
products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries products that can provide a holistic and guided experience
and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience across a spectrum of healthcare interventions, with the ability to
using digital tools and services? step out of the technology for direct person to person
consultation would benefit Medicare beneficiaries.
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health CMS could explore:
products' impact on health outcomes and related costs once • Using advanced analytics, AI, and machine learning to
they are released into the market, what would be the best interpret data and identify patterns in outcomes and cost
means of doing so? impacts.

• Using Medicare and Medicaid claims data to track
utilization, cost patterns, and related health outcomes
linked to digital health product users.
2. Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available Data that is directly collected or generated by the health system
and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? is readily available (patient visit history, Lab results, claims data,
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, etc.). The challenge is that this data is typically not
or app developers and other technical vendors, to access for contextualized in a way that is easily actionable by patients or
appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical providers.
data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment
(a) Data that is valuable, but hard for patients to access
schedules, prices)?
includes:
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical
o Pricing transparency data remains very difficult to
data, that would be of highest value, and why?
manage and must be interpreted by patients.
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve
o It is often difficult for patients to understand care
accessibility, interoperability and integration of clinical data
options related to their specific symptoms or
from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical
conditions when seeking treatment. Additionally,
research and generation of actionable evidence?
relevant information like availability and eligibility
are not populated in real-time, making it difficult
to make informed decisions about their care.
o Staff and provider scheduling (often due to
system fragmentation, lack of APIs, or data silos).
(b) Social determinants of health (SDOH), device/wearable
data, genomic data, and family medical history would
facilitate more personalized treatment plans.
a. Example: 45-year-old female patient that is at
risk of Type 2 diabetes. The patient has a strong
family history of the disease and SDOH data
revealing limited income, food insecurity,
language barriers, and transportation challenges.
With access to this information, her care team

can tailor interventions specifically to her needs.
This includes early screening due to genetic risk,
personalized patient education in her native
language, connections to food assistance
programs, and accessible lifestyle modifications
like home-based exercise and telehealth
appointments. By addressing both her biological
and social risk factors, this patient will receive
more effective, proactive care that helps prevent
disease progression.
(c) Opportunities include standardized APIs adoption and
frameworks. Challenges include lack of collaboration
with other hospital systems, data standard
inconsistencies across EMR systems.
a. Example: Wellstar collaborates with hospitals in
rural Georgia to improve access to specialty care
that is otherwise unavailable in those areas.
However, because these hospitals often lack the
resources to use Epic, patient data must be
transferred manually, creating challenges for
Wellstar providers who do not have full access to
a patient's complete medical history. The
adoption of standardized APIs and data-sharing
frameworks would enable more seamless data
exchange between EMRs, allowing Wellstar
clinicians to provide more informed consultations
based on a comprehensive view of each patient’s
medical background.
PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic Prior authorizations and referral data would be incredibly
patient demographic, Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part valuable in the API.
A, B, D), what additional CMS data sources do developers view

as most valuable for inclusion in the API to enable more useful (a) Complex implementation, inconsistent API formats,
digital products for patients and caretakers? outdated or delayed data.
a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data (b) Expand FHIR support, add real-time updates, provide
sources today? clearer documentation, and simplify developer access.
b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button (c) Immunization registries, HIE feeds, and patient-reported
2.0 API experience? outcomes for richer context.
c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API? (d) Inclusion of a national patient EMPI
(e) Create a standard provider ID linked to NPI databank as
well as DEA
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common TEFCATM facilitates broader exchange across networks,
AgreementTM (TEFCATM) currently helping to advance patient promotes participation, and provides a common legal and
access to health information in the real world? technical framework.
a. Please provide specific examples. (a) Examples include data aggregation across multiple
b. What changes would you suggest? providers and frameworks enabling patient-centered
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if research.
implemented through TEFCA? (b) Accelerate rollout, offer better guidance on use cases,
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working enhanced documentation and support.
well to advance access and existing exchange purposes? (c) Cross-provider patient record aggregation and seamless
e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in care transitions.
wide use, but could improve data access and integration? (d) FHIR and HL7 v2 (for ADT messages)
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that (e) Cross platform AI integration
should be consolidated? (f) Yes—overlapping exchange protocols like FHIR could be
g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for streamlined.
achieving widespread patient access to their health (g) Yes—private HIEs support exchange but lack national
information? scale.
PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently HIEs often offer comprehensive data sets with high utility, but
helping to advance patient access to health information in the quality and completeness vary by region and source. However,
real world? HIE’s for rural, independent hospitals are not functional for
coordinated medical care. The cost of participating in widely

a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data used HIE’s is prohibitive. Larger centers have excellent HIE
they share to be? functionality via Epic. However, small hospitals cannot utilize
b. What changes would you suggest? Epic and thus patients who have testing in rural hospitals have a
c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models disadvantage when seeking therapy with specialty physicians.
that you believe should be propagated across markets? (a) Generally valuable and timely, but completeness and
d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities standardization can be inconsistent
facilitating data exchange and broader frameworks for data (b) Standardize data ingestion, improve patient identity
exchange (for example, vendor health information networks, matching, and incentivize real-time data sharing.
TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)? (c) Unknown
(d) Support regional exchange and complement broader
frameworks like TEFCA and vendor networks
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use High value use cases for operational health data include
cases for patients and caregivers that, if addressed, would transparent cost estimates, real-time provider availability,
create more efficient care navigation or eliminate barriers to scheduling via third-party apps, access to provider quality
competition among providers or both? metrics, and tools for provider matching.
a. Examples may include the following: (b) Scheduling via apps, limited quality metrics and cost estimate
(1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods. tools.
(2) Viewing provider schedule availability. (c) Integrated navigation platforms around quality and
(3) Using third-party apps for appointment management. availability.
(4) Accessing patient-facing quality metrics. (d) Standardized, real-time cost and quality data across all
(5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs. providers and payers.
b. What use cases are possible today?
c. What should be possible in the near future?
d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to
achieve?
3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to
submit information blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's
Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact?

Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or
negatively impact data exchange?
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, (a) There is a distrust of a federal system that monitors personal
CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 ID that can cross multiple platforms for multiple use cases
credentialing service providers (CSP)): beyond healthcare.
a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers (b) Digital ID would be useful with care coordination and
to sign up and use digital identity credentials? efficiency of diagnosis and treatment.
b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital (c) Centralizing digital identity systems creates a single point of
identity credentials were more widely used? failure, greatly amplifying the risk in the event of a data breach.
c. What are the potential downsides? It could also raise significant concerns around data privacy and
d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to consent, particularly regarding how these issues would be
health information? managed in a government-run, centralized model.
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app
developers have in driving adoption?
f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity
credentials?
Question Feedback
Section C – Providers
2. Digital Health Apps
From PC 5: Digital Health Products definition - for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new
beneficiary communications

PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers,
including those in rural areas, to leverage approved (see description (a)
in PC-5) digital health products for their patients?
• pricing of tools/software compared to reimbursement,
a. What are the current obstacles?
logistics for cleaning/returning/shipping, EMR capabilities
b. What information should providers share with patients when
limited or require costly upgrades to enable all capabilities as
using digital products in the provision of their care?
outlined in PC5.
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use
• The uncertainty surrounding permanent telehealth policies—
of a digital product by a patient?
particularly regarding reimbursement rates, unclear policy
changes, and variability in coverage—coupled with limited
internet access in rural areas, and restrictions from medical
boards requiring providers to be licensed in the state where
the patient is physically located during care, presents
significant challenges.
(b)
• Providers should deliver training and education on the digital
tools patients will use as part of their care. They need to
clearly communicate how these tools can improve health
outcomes and provide straightforward instructions on when
and how patients can seek help if needed. Additionally,
providers should offer clear guidelines outlining what is
expected from patients when using these digital products.
Since patients often worry about the security of their
personal health information (PHI), it’s essential that providers
have transparent, patient-friendly policies explaining how
their data is protected during digital interactions.
(c)

• Verification that the vendor/software complies with all
information sharing requirements.
• Providers should also ensure that patients have the necessary
resources to use the product effectively at home or in their
place of care, and that patients fully understand how the
product will enhance their quality of life and health
outcomes.
• Cyberattacks on healthcare institutions are escalating in
frequency and sophistication, with rural hospitals particularly
vulnerable due to limited IT staffing, outdated infrastructure,
and fragmented security practices. Recent events in
Georgia—where two rural hospitals in the same network
experienced vastly different outcomes after cyber
intrusions—highlight the urgent need for a systematic
approach to evaluating and strengthening cybersecurity in
underserved areas.
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or Interoperability challenges between EMRs and digital tools, along
effective utilization of the most useful and innovative applications for with costly integration efforts due to vendor limitations, create
physician workflows, such as quality measurement reporting, clinical significant barriers to efficient data sharing. Additionally, quality
documentation, and billing tasks? How could these obstacles be measures often rely on billing and claims data rather than clinical
mitigated? data, increasing administrative burdens for clinicians. To alleviate
this, payors should be mandated to participate in Health Information
Exchanges (HIEs) to capture clinical data directly from providers,
reducing billing-related administrative tasks.
Moreover, providers need sufficient time and training to effectively
use innovative digital applications and understand their role in
supporting clinical workflows. Adoption is often hindered by unclear
or unfavorable reimbursement compared to traditional care. To
overcome this, digital tools must be seamlessly integrated into daily

workflows and designed with input from providers and clinical
teams. Offering incentives and developing quality measures that
reflect digital tools’ unique capabilities can further encourage
adoption. Additionally, integrating CME courses tailored to these
digital applications into required curricula will help ensure providers
are competent and confident in their use.
CMS can also assist with driving enhancements to support the
physician workflow, particularly in providing more patient-centered
care, and supporting their workflow to meet quality measures
reporting, documentation, and billing tasks. While submitting data
through structured data has shown progress, there are limitations in
accuracy and reflection of the quality data being submitted. Many
providers still document quality measures in unstructured formats
such as clinical notes, imaging, or study results. As AI accuracy
improves, CMS may consider partnering with developers to
incorporate unstructured data into the quality measures reporting
process. This enhancement could improve the accuracy of data, for
example, by recognizing a normotensive blood pressure reading
documented in clinical notes rather than just relying on structured
data fields. Similarly, unstructured data may reveal quality measures
like cancer screening and vaccinations that could be overlooked in
structured data fields. Physicians and patients would need to be key
participants in this process, with additional data access requests and
agreements required.
Finally, while value-based payment programs have been in place for
years, barriers still limit organizations from effectively driving
change. One limitation is aligning providers, patients, and
communities through incentives to enhance engagement. Another
limitation is the opportunity for multi-payor alignment to value-

based payment programs. The current structure incentivizes
organizations based on performance regardless of their
infrastructure. Organizations with fewer resources face greater
challenges in meeting requirements and performance. An alternative
incentive payment model could provide upfront investment to
communities and healthcare organizations to enhance IT capabilities,
reducing barriers faced by providers, patients, and communities.
Aligning multi-payors on quality measure reporting should be
explored further, especially as the Medicare Advantage program
grows. Establishing a multi-payor database for all patients, especially
Medicare and Medicare Advantage patients, could enhance the
improvement work of value-based payment programs.
PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might Adopting standardized data formats, definitions, and measurement
be needed for patients' third-party digital products to have access to units is essential for enabling seamless data merging and
administrative workflows, such as auto-populating intake forms, reconciliation across systems. A universal standard for identity
viewing provider information and schedules, and making and verification would further simplify the auto-population of
modifying an appointment? information from third-party digital tools.
In parallel, it is critical to establish clear, comprehensive policies
governing third-party application access to administrative workflows,
ensuring full compliance with HIPAA standards. These policies should
remain flexible, transparent, and regularly updated to inform
healthcare providers of their rights and responsibilities. To reduce
administrative burden and improve care continuity, third-party tools
must be required to integrate smoothly with electronic health
records (EHRs), minimizing reliance on multiple platforms and
reducing risks related to data entry errors or system gaps.
2. Data Exchange

PR-5. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you
already support or utilize in your provider organization's systems,
directly or through an intermediary? For each, describe the
transaction model, use case, whether you use individual queries or
bulk transactions, and any constraints:
a. Patient Access API.
b. Standardized API for Patient and Population Services.
c. Provider Directory API.
d. Provider Access API.
e. Payer-to-Payer API.
f. Prior Authorization API.
g. Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based access filtering
for population-specific queries?
h. SMART on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and
standalone app access? What does the process for
application deployment entail?
i. CDS Hooks (for clinical decision support integrations).
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health TEFCA is helping us to advance providers' access to health
information? information.
a. Please provide specific examples. (b)
b. What changes would you suggest? Enhanced security measures to protect patient data from breaches
c. What other options are available outside of TEFCA? and unauthorized access, streamlined processes for data exchanges
d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both thereby reducing the administrative burden of the healthcare
that could be consolidated? providers and increasing funding to allocate more resources to
support the implementation and maintenance of TEFCA.
(c)
• DirectTrust: A network that provides secure email
communication between healthcare providers.

• CommonWell Health Alliance: An organization that offers
interoperability services to connect healthcare providers and
share patient data.
• Carequality: A framework that enables health information
exchange between different networks and systems.
(d)
Consolidation of similar standards to reduce complexity and improve
efficiency in data exchange, developing a single set of protocols for
health information exchange to avoid duplication and streamlining
processes and integrating multiple channels of communication into a
unified platform to enhance provider access to health information.
PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in • Adoption of FHIR APIs to facilitate the secure exchange of
making high-quality, timely, and comprehensive healthcare data health information, policies around adoption of modern data
available for interoperability in the digital product ecosystem? How standards, and supporting the programs that leverage FHIR
can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be APIs to improve patient care.
mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics • Enhancing the role of TEFCA to advance provider access to
that providers are already motivated to optimize for that could be health information by consolidating standards, protocols, and
reused for, or combined with, efforts needed to support data exchange processes.
interoperability? • Ability to leverage bulk export FHIR data for quality metrics
calculations.
• Automation of data collection such as Epic’s questionnaire
series can reduce the manual workload on providers and
ensure timely data submission.
• Aligning interoperability metrics with certain existing metrics
related to patient care and operational efficiency.
• Integrating the interoperability requirements into the current
decision support systems and workflows can be more

effective in adoption of current goals of the providers while
also meeting new data standards.
PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying (b) Consolidating interoperability and quality reporting
clinical quality data responsibilities of providers? responsibilities allows providers to invest in systems that serve
a. What would be the benefits and downsides of using Bulk FHIR multiple purposes, thereby reducing redundant efforts.
data exports from EHRs to CMS to simplify clinical quality (c) Standardization of data exchange formats, data terminologies,
data submissions? Can CMS reduce the burden on providers realtime data access to improve patient outcomes through clinical
by performing quality metrics calculations leveraging Bulk care decisions, compliant data protection regulations to ensure
FHIR data exports? privacy and security of the data along with role-based access to
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting authorized personnel would help improve the efficiency and
responsibilities of providers be consolidated so investments effectiveness of the processes.
can be dually purposed?
c. Are there requirements CMS should consider for data
registries to support digital quality measurement in a more
efficient manner? Are there requirements CMS should
consider for data registries that would support access to real-
time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical
care in addition to simplifying reporting processes?
3. Digital Identify
PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity
credentials (for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and
their partners instead of proprietary logins that need to be tracked
for each provider relationship?
a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the
transition to a single set of trusted digital identity credentials
for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for each
provider?
b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience
and access to digital health products and services that may
lead to significant improvements in health?

PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR,
Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs):
a. What are the challenges and benefits for providers?
b. How would requiring their use improve access to health
information?
c. What are the potential downsides?
d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a
nationwide provider directory?
e. How could digital identity implementation improve provider
data flow?
f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data
flow?
PR-11. How could members of trust communities [3] (for example,
QHINs, participants and subparticipants in TEFCA, which requires
Identity Assurance Level 2 (IAL2) via Credential Service Providers
(CSPs)) better support the goals of reduced provider and patient
burden while also enhancing identity management and security?
PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical quality
data responsibilities of providers?
a. How interested are payers and providers in EHR technology
advances that enable bulk extraction of clinical quality data from
EHRs to payers to allow them to do the calculations instead of the
provider-side technology?
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting
responsibilities of providers to both CMS and other payers be
consolidated so investments can be dually purposed? Are there
technologies payers might leverage that would support access to real
time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical care in
addition to simplifying reporting processes?

PA-7. How can CMS encourage payers to submit information blocking
complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would
be the impact? Would it advance or negatively impact data
exchange?
4. Information Blocking
PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the
information blocking exceptions or conditions within the exceptions
(45 CFR part 171, subparts B through D) to further the access,
exchange, and use of electronic health information (EHI) and to
promote market competition?
PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42
U.S.C. 300jj(3)), without a current information blocking disincentive
established by CMS, what would be the most effective disincentive
for that category of provider?
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information
blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal?
What would be the impact? Would it advance or negatively impact
data exchange?
Question Feedback
Section D – Payers

PA-1. What policy or technical limitations do you see in TEFCA?
What changes would you suggest to address those limitations?
To what degree do you expect these limitations to hinder
participation in TEFCA?
PA-2. How can CMS encourage payers to accelerate the
implementation and utilization of APIs for patients, providers,
and other payers, similar to the Blue Button 2.0 and Data at the
Point of Care APIs released by CMS?
PA-3. How can CMS encourage payers to accept digital identity CMS might provide guidance, or requirements on digital identity
credentials (for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients credentials with a ramp-up period to compliance.
and their partners instead of proprietary logins?
PA-4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide Payers continue to be concerned with and subject to data
provider directory that included FHIR end points and used digital breaches and cyber-attacks and should be interested in
identity credentials? emerging opportunities to further limit exposure.
PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical Payers may be willing to accept the clinical data that resides
quality data responsibilities of providers? within EMRs as the system of record if providers are willing to
a. How interested are payers and providers in EHR technology provide new levels of appropriate access and interoperability.
advances that enable bulk extraction of clinical quality data from
A) Of great interest.
EHRs to payers to allow them to do the calculations instead of
the provider-side technology?
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting
responsibilities of providers to both CMS and other payers be

consolidated so investments can be dually purposed? Are there
technologies payers might leverage that would support access to
real time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical
care in addition to simplifying reporting processes?
PA-7. How can CMS encourage payers to submit information
blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal?
What would be the impact? Would it advance or negatively
impact data exchange?