King & Spalding LLP
1700 Pennsylvania Ave, NW
Suite 200
Washington, D.C. 20006-4707
Tel: +1 202 737 0500
Fax: +1 202 626 3737
www.kslaw.com
Adam C. Solander
Partner
Direct Dial: +1 202 626 5542
Direct Fax: +1 202 626 3737
asolander@kslaw.com
February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: HHS Health Sector AI RFI
RIN: 0955-AA13
SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY (HTTP://WWW.REGULATIONS.GOV)
Dear Dr. Keane:
We write to the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) on behalf of a digital health
and medical device client. We appreciate the opportunity to submit comments on the Request for
Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care.
Introduction
On the eve of the first internet era, lawmakers recognized the necessity of ensuring the free flow
of information within the health care industry. Congress passed the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) in 1996 to accomplish three goals: ensure continuity of
individual insurance coverage, protect patient agency with respect to their protected health
information (“PHI”), and streamline the electronic exchange of health information.1 By
emphasizing portability of care, coverage, and data, HIPAA laid the groundwork for a more
efficient and interconnected health care ecosystem.
Thirty years later, we are in the midst of another remarkable period of technological innovation
spurred by artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies. But decisive regulatory action
is once again necessary to ensure the free flow of information. Doing so will continue to catalyze
1 See William J. Clinton, Statement on Signing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Online
by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project
https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/222651 (Aug. 21, 1996).

Page 2 of 8
a diverse and competitive marketplace where AI entrepreneurship is rewarded and better health
outcomes are delivered.
Today, certain industry actors are seeking to consolidate power and ownership of health data by
exploiting the rules, policies, and terms of access to Health Information Exchanges (“HIEs”) and
Qualified Health Information Networks (“QHINs”). Tools clearly meant to promote information
sharing are being used to lock out digital health and medical device companies on the baseless
grounds that these entities cannot provide “treatment” or “health care” as understood under
HIPAA, with the implicit connotation that treatment is the exclusive domain of hospitals and
physician practices, and their electronic health record vendors. This rationale completely rewrites
HIPAA and the 21st Century Cures Act and ignores the policy goals of each core piece of
legislation.
Data is the lifeblood of AI innovation. Health data access should not be something that plays out
in private interest business litigation, closed-door arbitrations, or dense pages of HIE participation
rules and agreements—it belongs in the hands of the patient. Indeed, HHS recognizes that patients
should be able to “access their electronic medical information anywhere that it lives on the
network” and that health apps should “not require any special status to be on the network.”2
Moreover, such access should occur “seamlessly,” without requiring a patient to jump through
unnecessary hoops or “repeatedly recall and write out their medical history.”3 Restricting digital
health and medical device companies’ access to HIEs not only stifles AI advancement and
disregards the key role these companies play in patients’ day-to-day lives; it eschews bedrock
principles of patient access and autonomy.
Accordingly, HHS should protect digital health and medical device companies’ ability to
participate in HIEs by requiring QHINs to admit to HIEs those companies that directly interact
with patients and provide “treatment” as that term is and has been long understood under HIPAA.
This can and should permit a wide variety of actors to participate in the health data community in
order to execute HHS’s salient policy goals of patient access and empowerment, accelerating the
use of AI in health care, and reducing red tape and anticompetitive barriers to marketplace
innovation.
I. Regulatory Background
HIPAA
With the passage of HIPAA, Congress directed HHS to standardize the format for the exchange of
health information. Standardization improves the accuracy and reliability of health information,
reduces administrative overhead and cost associated with competing transmission formats, and
enhances the coordination of care between health care entities.4 More than just cost savings, HHS
2 Interoperability Framework, CTRS. FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVS., https://www.cms.gov/health-technology-
ecosystem/interoperability-framework (last modified July 31, 2025).
3 Patient Facing Apps – Kill the Clipboard, CTRS. FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVS., https://www.cms.gov/health-
tech-ecosystem/early-adopters/kill-the-clipboard (last modified February 17, 2026).
4 67 Fed. Reg. 53182, 53182 (Aug. 14, 2002).
2

Page 3 of 8
recognized that accurate, efficient, and effective data exchanges drive better health outcomes for
patients and improve the delivery of care.5
Moreover, an effective data exchange would meet the needs of a health data community that was
no longer a closed, “one-to-one interaction[] between patients and clinicians, [but rather an]
integrated health care delivery network . . . .”6 HHS understood that any data exchange must
encourage and grow with a diverse community of health care actors. Specifically, the standards
for data exchange would need to “incorporate flexibility to adapt more easily to changes in the
health care infrastructure (such as new services, organizations, and provider types) and information
technology.”7
These themes of innovation and interconnectivity permeate HIPAA. HHS emphasizes that
whether an organization is a HIPAA–covered entity is “based on activities and functions” and “not
titles.”8 Reinforcing this position, HHS identifies several types of non-traditional entities,
including “pharmaceutical manufacturers” and “online companies” that may qualify as covered
entities, provided that they meet the statutory definition of “health care provider” and furnish, bill,
or are paid for “health care.”9 HHS, in February 2004, further illustrated this role-based, flexible
standard by explicitly recognizing that medical device companies may receive PHI for treatment
purposes.10 HHS acknowledges that these core HIPAA definitions cannot serve to gatekeep data
and stymie progress, but rather must be firmly rooted in function in order to accommodate
technological innovation.11
TEFCA
Created under the 21st Century Cures Act, the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common
Agreement (“TEFCA”) built upon HIPAA’s data exchange framework by establishing a set of
standards issued by the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology to promote health data interoperability. This
public-private initiative established the HIEs and the supporting QHINs to realize the policy goal
5 65 Fed. Reg. 82462, 82465 (Dec. 28, 2000) (“Use of electronic information has helped to speed the delivery of
effective care and the processing of billions of dollars worth of health care claims. Greater use of electronic data has
also increased our ability to identify and treat those who are at risk for disease, conduct vital research, detect fraud
and abuse, and measure and improve the quality of care delivered in the U.S.”).
6 Id. at 82465.
7 63 Fed. Reg. 43242, 43244 (Aug. 12, 1998).
8 65 Fed. Reg. at 82568.
9 Id. at 82574.
10 HHS FAQs, “When may a covered health care provider disclose protected health information, without an
authorization or business associate agreement, to a medical device company representative?” (last updated Aug. 8,
2005), available at: https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/faq/490/when-may-a-covered-health-care-provider-
disclose-protected-health-information-without-authorization/index.html; HHS and CardioNet, Inc. Resolution
Agreement, HHS (April 3, 2017), available at: https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/cardionet-ra-cap.pdf (finding
that a cardiac monitoring device company was a covered entity).
11 See 63 Fed. Reg. 25320, 25321, 25325 (May 7, 1998).
3

Page 4 of 8
of health data interoperability and continue to promote underlying objectives of patient care and
choice.12
Health care providers, covered entities, and health IT developers with a valid purpose may access
PHI via TEFCA. These purposes are treatment, payment, health care operations, public health,
government benefits determinations, and individual access services. Entities must share data for
treatment purposes but may share data for other purposes, like payment or health care operations.
This dynamic echoes HIPAA’s long-standing protection of the free flow of information for
covered entities’ treatment purposes.13
TEFCA SOP Changes
The Common Agreement for Nationwide Health Information Interoperability (“Common
Agreement”) governs data access to HIEs. TEFCA, through its Recognized Coordinating Entity
(“RCE”), and QHINs are signatories to the Common Agreement, but the Common Agreement
includes flow-down terms such that all HIE participants must agree to substantially the same
language. The Common Agreement contemplates change management provisions and
differentiates between changes to the Common Agreement and to Standard Operating Procedures,
or those rules that govern participants’ access to the QHINs.14
In July 2024, TEFCA released Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): Exchange Purpose (XP)
Implementation: Treatment (“Treatment SOP”). The Treatment SOP created a new subcategory
of HIE data access requests, or queries, entitled “TEFCA Required Treatment.” HIE participants
must respond to treatment queries sent under this exchange purpose code. Conversely, treatment
queries that fall under the generic treatment code are permissive requests for information, and thus,
optional.15 The Treatment SOP states that only certain covered entities may initiate transactions
12 See, e.g., ONC’s Cures Act Final Rule, HealthIT.gov, https://www.healthit.gov/topic/oncs-cures-act-final-rule (last
updated March 26, 2024) (“The rule is designed to give patients and their healthcare providers secure access to health
information. It also aims to increase innovation and competition by fostering an ecosystem of new applications to
provide patients with more choices in their healthcare”).
13 See 45 C.F.R. § 164.506(c). See also 45 C.F.R. § 164.502(b)(2)(i) (excluding treatment activities from HIPAA’s
“minimum necessary” requirement); 65 Fed. Reg. at 82493 (expressing clear intent not to interfere with patient
treatment by promulgating an exception to uses and disclosures of PHI requiring patient authorization).
14 Changes to the Common Agreement are subject to a procedural process outlined in the Common Agreement. While
the RCE may elect to consult with various governing bodies within the HIE/QHIN structure regarding changes to the
Common Agreement, it is not required to consult with the “Participant/Subparticipant Caucus.” Further, proposed
changes to the Common Agreement need only be ratified by a two-thirds’ vote cast by QHIN caucus members.
Similarly, for any changes to the SOPs, the RCE may elect to consult with various governing bodies within the
HIE/QHIN structure, but it is not required to consult with the Participant/Subparticipant Caucus. Any material
changes to the SOPs must be approved by at least two-thirds’ vote of the QHIN caucus and Participant/Subparticipant
Caucus. However, any non-material changes to SOPs need only be approved by two-thirds’ vote of the QHIN caucus.
15 See Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): Exchange Purpose (XP) Implementation: Treatment, TEFCA at
§ 5.4.2.2 (“QHIN Query Response – All Responding Nodes MUST respond to QHIN Queries for the T-TRTMNT XP
Code that contain the information specified in this SOP, in accordance with the Framework Agreements and
Applicable Law.”) compared to id. at § 4.4.2.2 (“QHIN Query Response – All Responding Nodes SHOULD Respond
to QHIN Query Requests for the T-TREAT XP Code that contain the information specified in this SOP, in accordance
with the Framework Agreements and Applicable Law.”), available here: https://rce.sequoiaproject.org/wp-
content/uploads/2024/07/SOP-Treatment-XP-Implementation_508.pdf.
4

Page 5 of 8
under the TEFCA Required Treatment code. Specifically, only covered entities that are licensed
health care providers—or their delegates, which includes their electronic health record vendors—
may send TEFCA Required Treatment requests.16 TEFCA announced that these changes, which
were described as ‘clarifying’ procedural changes, were “intentionally narrow” and issued by
TEFCA in order to “build trust” in the TEFCA community.
Contrary to TEFCA’s trust-building, procedural classification, these changes created a two-tiered
system in which certain covered entities were guaranteed access to health data and other covered
entities were not.17 This structure significantly departs from the long-standing HIPAA principles
that recognize and protect all health care providers’ ability to use and disclose PHI for treatment
purposes. Moreover, the Treatment SOP was foisted upon the health data community without any
discussion or debate. The changes were announced without the benefit of any meaningful
procedural protections contemplated under the Common Agreement and fall far short of notice-
and-comment rulemaking standards under the Administrative Procedure Act.
II. The Role of Digital Health and Medical Device Companies
Digital health and medical device companies are reshaping the health care industry by prioritizing
a user-first philosophy that reimagines what it means to deliver patient-centered care. Unlike
traditional health care systems that operate on rigid, appointment-based workflows where
providers may interact with patients a few times a year at most, digital health and medical device
companies leverage sleek, intuitive interfaces to incorporate health care into a patient’s day-to-day
life. By focusing heavily on user interaction and high-fidelity design, these companies
significantly reduce barriers to entry and engagement. Such low-friction touchpoints foster a
richer and more textured relationship with the patient, transforming health from an episodic chore
into a continuous, proactive dialogue.
A high level of engagement promotes better data collection, and allows these companies to capture
a broader spectrum of real-world data than typical hospitals and health care systems. Through the
integration of wearable devices, IoT-enabled diagnostic tools, and other health related mobile apps,
these platforms gather longitudinal data on key health metrics like sleep patterns, heart rate
variability, physical activity, ovulation cycles, wellness trackers, and nutritional intake. This data
supports not only healthy habits in general, but promotes key health drivers and objectives, like
chronic condition counseling, medication adherence, care coordination and navigation, remote
patient monitoring, post-treatment therapies, and other care counseling services. When this data
is supplemented with data obtained in more traditional health care settings and processed using
digital health and medical device companies’ sophisticated, AI-driven data analytics, hyper-
personalized care interventions become possible. For example, an app may nudge a diabetic
patient to adjust their nutritional intake based on immediate glucose trends or identify early signs
of mental health decline through behavioral changes and daily journaling practices.
Digital health and medical device companies are uniquely positioned to bridge the care gap that
exists, not only from check-up–to–check-up, but between the patient in the clinical context and the
16 See id. at § 5.3. Government organizations like the Veterans Health Administration may also send requests under
the TEFCA Required Treatment code.
17 See id. at pg. 3.
5

Page 6 of 8
patient in their real-world setting. On-demand and multifaceted engagement surfaces—such as
automated data collection, daily reminders and push notifications, 24/7 chat support, or instant
virtual consultations—reorient the delivery of care around the patient, wherever they may be. This
combination of high-definition data, sophisticated analytical offerings, and human-centric design
demonstrates the unique value that digital health and medical device companies provide to the
health care ecosystem.
Unfortunately, certain industry actors interpret this value proposition as a threat instead of an
opportunity to collaborate and achieve better health outcomes. Permitting only some members of
the health data community to meaningful partake in the HIEs will stymie the innovative and
competitive marketplace goals that HHS seeks to foster. Exclusion (on the basis of an inaccurate
reading of HIPAA and closed-door drafting sessions) creates a two-tiered system for entities—
those that can participate in legitimate business activities and those that cannot—and ultimately
reduces patient choice and autonomy in the marketplace.
III. Responses to Specific Requests for Information
a. Response to RFI Question No. 3
Question No. 3: For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise
novel legal and implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability
structures (e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel legal and
implementation issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to help address them?
Certain industry actors are seeking to misappropriate HIPAA’s definitions of “treatment,”
“covered entity,” and/or “health care” in the Common Agreement, and the supporting terms of
HIE access, to block digital health and medical device companies from participating in the HIEs.
At best, these actors concede that relevant HHS guidance creates ambiguity and gray areas as to
which entities may be capable of performing “treatment” or what “treatment” may look like in
practice. On the contrary, as described in more detail above, long-standing guidance from HHS’
rulemaking activity, including a piece of guidance that is over twenty years old, explicitly
recognizes the variety of actors that may indeed provide “treatment” and thus are permitted to
access PHI for such purposes.
HHS should recognize and reinforce its flexible definition of “treatment” under HIPAA by issuing
new guidance that expressly acknowledges the role that direct-to-patient, AI-powered services can
and do play in today’s health ecosystem—including providing and supporting “treatment”
purposes.
b. Response to RFI Question Nos. 2, 5
Question No. 2: What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS
prioritize to incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations,
policies, or programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical
care? Please provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
6

Page 7 of 8
Question No. 5: How can HHS best support private sector activities (e.g., accreditation,
certification, industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use
in clinical care?
HHS should continue to support private sector AI innovation by providing an accreditation or
certification for digital health and medical device companies that provide certain innovative health
services powered by AI. Such an accreditation or certification would serve as an additional means
to substantiate these entities’ “treatment” purpose, for purposes of meeting TEFCA’s permitted
purposes access requirements and any corresponding implementation instructions or guidelines.
This alternative path would provide a neutral setting where digital health and medical device
companies could demonstrate their clinical value, instead of fighting against well-funded, self-
interested parties that are currently commandeering the HIE/QHIN rules of engagement.
HHS should also consider (i) amending the Common Agreement to prohibit non-discrimination of
digital health and medical device companies that have direct interactions with patients;
(ii) requiring any changes to HIE or QHIN participation policies, business rules, or other
applicable standards governing access to health data be subject to a vote involving all QHIN
participants and subparticipants—not just QHIN caucus members;18 and (iii) immediately
unwinding the two-tiered system established under the Treatment SOP. When private actors
arbitrarily and capriciously change or enforce such terms to exclude certain parties, not only is the
result unfair and anticompetitive, but it threatens the health and safety of patients who incorporate
those digital health technologies in their day-to-day health care.
c. Response to RFI Question No. 8
Question No. 8: Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel
research, and accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data
types, data standards, and benchmarking tools.
AI technologies are only as good as the data on which they are based. Effective AI development
requires data from a variety of contexts and encounters across the patient’s health care journey.
This comment seeks to underscore the necessary condition precedent—that digital health and
medical device companies are permitted HIE data access in the first place.
Conclusion
HHS has long recognized that health care is not limited to the four corners of a doctor’s office. A
thriving health data ecosystem pushes actors to meet patients where they are—online, in connected
devices, or in the palm of the patient’s hand. To best realize HHS’ goal of AI innovation and
adoption, HHS must act to protect digital health and medical device companies’ ability to access
HIE data. QHINs must admit digital health and medical device companies that directly interact
with patients and recognize that non-traditional actors must access this data for “treatment”
purposes. Preserving this free market balance will promote patient agency and better health
outcomes and help establish the U.S. as a global leader in AI.
18 See § 5.3.4 of the Common Agreement.
7

Page 8 of 8
*********
We appreciate the chance to provide HHS with information about the industry and comments to
your requests for information that we presented in this comment letter. Please do not hesitate to
contact us if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Adam C. Solander
8