 Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information regarding the Health Technology Ecosystem. Please accept the following comments from Cityblock Health, Inc. and Cityblock Medical Practice, P.A. (Cityblock). Cityblock is a value-based healthcare provider focused on the complex clinical, behavioral health, and social needs of dually eligible and Medicaid recipients. Cityblock oﬀers a fully integrated solution that directly delivers clinical care to some of the most at-risk and hardest to reach populations. Powered by advanced technology that provides its care team with a data-driven understanding of member needs and risks, Cityblock has demonstrated industry-leading engagement, member retention, meaningful reductions in avoidable hospital readmissions, and reduced total cost of care. PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange? Patient frustration and confusion regarding information requests come from the lack of transparency in the process. Providing requested records often requires coordination between various providers or systems, so patients generally do not have visibility into the eﬀort spent to collect records from multiple oﬀices. A formalized patient inquiry approach might be more productive than an information blocking complaint. For example, after 15 days, a patient could request for a status update through an inquiry process. This would also serve as a reminder for providers of outstanding records requests. Alternatively, patients could proactively receive periodic updates as requests move through the process. This would give patients greater visibility into the timeline and a dedicated resource to check for updates. PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)): ○ What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use digital identity credentials? Patients often have low trust in external solicitations, and may experience time and cognitive scarcity, leading them not to consider these credentials or to discount them relative to the perceived hassle required to obtain them. Some may also have low tech literacy or lack access to technological devices to obtain or use these credentials. ○ What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were more widely used? Patients could benefit from improved access to health data, more control over their data and the coordination of their care, and better empowerment of caregivers to coordinate care with digital identity credentials. ○ What are the potential downsides? www.cityblock.com 1 
 Wider use of digital identity credentials could result in health disparities among those with lower tech access and literacy if they are a prerequisite for coordinating and accessing care. They also confer some degree of privacy risk, and may reduce engagement on that basis. ○ How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information? Digital identity credentials could reduce friction in accessing information and care for some members, especially if used across multiple providers and portals. ○ What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving adoption? These entities can drive adoption by developing inclusive pathways for patients to get and use digital identity credentials, building receptivity among members to use them, supporting members tactically in obtaining them, and developing usable and accessible apps that have been user tested by diverse populations with varying degrees of technological proficiency. ○ How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials? Incentivization, low friction enrollment campaigns, funding for local support entities and digital navigators, and public awareness campaigns are all levers to drive enrollment in digital identity credentials. Additionally, CMS could allow state Medicaid programs and / or individual Medicaid managed care plans to cover broadband as a Medicaid benefit - e.g., by covering membersʼ monthly payments for the Lifeline connectivity program for low-income consumers, or by allowing states to give managed care plans the option to oﬀer broadband as an “in lieu of” service (or a component of a virtual service) that can be substituted for standard Medicaid benefits when that substitute service is medically appropriate and cost eﬀective. PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health information? ○ Please provide specific examples. ○ What changes would you suggest? ● Allow VBC providers to access PHI for members attributed to them, regardless of whether those patients have used services, including: ○ Clarifying that the HIPAA definition of “treatment” includes members assigned to VBC providers, even if not yet treated, enabling access to Protected Health Information (PHI) ○ Specifically, HHS / CMS could issue a statement that “intend to treat” falls within HIPAAʼs definition of Treatment for VBC providers. This aligns with the new Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) definition ○ This would ensure that VBC services are included in the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) “HIPAA Exemption” as healthcare-related services, as the TCPA outlines the circumstances when providers can contact patients CMS could also consider applying the “intend to treat” clarification to VBC providers that are financially accountable for both up- and downside risk for www.cityblock.com 2 
 the patients they serve, ensuring that only providers whose incentives are strongly aligned with eﬀicient, high-quality care delivery for all of their assigned patients have access to PHI ● Incentivize provider and health information exchange (HIE) organizations to participate in TEFCA networks to make them a true compilation of all data. ○ While most organizations participate in local or regional HIEs, it can create an additional barrier to access for multi-state or national providers who primarily leverage QHINs. ○ What other options are available outside of TEFCA? The VBC model depends on the healthcare systemʼs ability to find and fill gaps in beneficiary health information and get real-time access to beneficiary information. As a VBC provider, we encourage CMS, in collaboration with the FCC, to expand the existing TCPA health message exemption to cover VBC providersʼ utilization of supplementary contact information as a way to increase the likelihood of successfully contacting beneficiaries. Our understanding from working with plans is that the current health message exemption is tied to beneficiary consent for outreach that is gathered during initial plan onboarding. As we have seen during the Medicaid redeterminations process, contact information can change relatively frequently and plans are often not notified, meaning that information collected during onboarding might be accurate for a relatively short amount of time. Allowing VBC providers to leverage additional data sources could improve VBC outreach success rates, if providers can begin outreach with the most current information. The ability to use supplementary data could also minimize current administrative burden and unnecessary delays in access, particularly for beneficiaries who are hard to reach. PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality, timely, and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital product ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics that providers are already motivated to optimize for that could be reused for, or combined with, eﬀorts needed to support interoperability? The core technical problem with interoperability is data matching across data sets. Correctly matching patient IDs across systems to minimize duplication of records and incorrect matching is fundamental to successful interoperability. Simpler and more accurate data matching processes would help bridge other interoperability challenges such as diﬀerent storage formats, although full standardization would be ideal. We recognize that there can be a trade-oﬀ between data timeliness and time needed for standardization. Data timeliness is critical to identify gaps in care or other needs as quickly as possible. As artificial intelligence (AI) continues to improve, AI tools may be able to speed up the data standardization process or more easily convert data from one format to another. While AI tools might simplify this eﬀort, it would still put the onus on each organization to have the correct resources to transfer data to the correct format. www.cityblock.com 3 
 In an ideal scenario, standardized access formats and interoperable formats are a key enabler to providing eﬀective and eﬀicient care. To achieve this ideal, CMS could create a glidepath to interoperability that incentivizes providers to share data at the highest level of interoperability, while also encouraging access for providers that might not have the same level of data-sharing sophistication. This framing would encourage providers to develop sophisticated data sharing capabilities that can both easily share and ingest external data, rather than creating a standard based around the least common denominator and minimizing incentives to develop additional capabilities. We encourage CMS to build oﬀ existing tools, recognizing both the financial investments in existing infrastructure and the educational eﬀorts already undertaken by providers to utilize existing tools. CMS can encourage high-quality interoperability at a centralized level by developing a low- or no-cost tool that overlays the existing infrastructure, but simplifies the provider interface to access data. This would not disrupt the current ownership of diﬀerent data, while also improving access and usability. CMS could base cost for the tool on the quality and completeness of submitted data to incentivize organizations to share high-quality data. PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data responsibilities of providers? ○ What would be the benefits and downsides of using Bulk FHIR data exports from EHRs to CMS to simplify clinical quality data submissions? Can CMS reduce the burden on providers by performing quality metrics calculations leveraging Bulk FHIR data exports? Bulk FHIR data export would ease providersʼ administrative burden by replacing the current eﬀort and resources focused on sampling processes and methodology to extrapolate samples to the full population. Bulk export would encourage reviews of aggregate data rather than using a sampling process. CMS could also simplify clinical quality data responsibilities of providers by leveraging existing standards for quality measures and streamlining the certification process for primary data that can be used to meet quality gaps in care. Provider organizations often use vendors or tools to ingest data from external providers or HIEs. That information is often not considered certified, so additional eﬀort is expended to get primary source confirmation. Ideally, there should be a simple process to validate the accuracy of records from external providers or HIEs or a standardized way to include supplemental data without needing certification. PR-11. How could members of trust communities  [3] (for example, QHINs, participants and subparticipants in TEFCA, which requires Identity Assurance Level 2 (IAL2) via Credential Service Providers (CSPs)) better support the goals of reduced provider and patient burden while also enhancing identity management and security? CMS could streamline the process to become a QHIN. Reducing barriers to QHIN approval would increase the number of organizations that can participate in the collection and distribution of patient data on a national level. www.cityblock.com 4 
 Encouraging additional organizations to participate in the QHIN network will lead to more robust and comprehensive data in QHINs and reduce the need to work with multiple, often regional, data warehouses. VB-4. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in value-based care arrangements? ● Comprehensive claims data (inclusive of billing and servicing providers, diagnosis codes, procedure codes, place of service, and service quantity) from all providers increases the potential impact of VBC ● Detailed demographic information such as name, birth date, current phone number and address VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing value-based care programs? Access to Comprehensive, Real-time Data ● Access to accurate and timely data is essential to our ability to best serve our members, and to the promise of value-based care (VBC) in general. Individualized, plan-specific approaches to designing value-based provider agreements and data sharing requirements has led to a cumbersome and fractured landscape that limits VBC providersʼ ability to deliver and coordinate optimal care for members, and creates challenges for providers seeking to partner with multiple plans, and vice versa. ● Access to timely, comprehensive data is important for both providers with an existing treatment relationship and providers new to a beneficiaryʼs care team, to allow for care that leverages collaborative interdisciplinary care teams or wraparound services. CMS could also design a mechanism to give VBC providers a unique Contract ID to allow provider access to specific components of payer data housed on CMS systems, subject to Medicare Advantage plan approval. ● In addition to completeness, timeliness of data is critical for highest quality care delivery, care continuity, and informed decision making by beneficiaries and providers. We encourage CMS to consider allowing VBC providers to access real time eligibility data housed within CMS. This would allow VBC providers to validate enrollment information from Medicare Advantage plan partners, which might be out of date if payers only send enrollment information quarterly. This real time validation would help mitigate beneficiary confusion or administrative burden if providers are using outdated eligibility information. As noted above, we are interested in exploring the idea of Medicare Advantage plans being able to give selected VBC providers limited access to their data within CMS through a unique contract ID or other mechanism. Access could be limited to specific data components and dependent on payer approval to ensure plans retain control over how their data is shared. However, leveraging existing data sets and access pathways within CMS could reduce administrative burden of payers needing to create specialized data sets and data sharing processes with each VBC provider. www.cityblock.com 5 
 VB-13. What improvements to existing criteria and standards would better support value-based care capabilities while reducing provider burden? ● Timely access to comprehensive claims data (inclusive of billing and servicing providers, diagnosis codes, procedure codes, place of service, and service quantity) from all providers increases the potential impact of VBC. ● Enabling new VBC partnerships by leveraging standardized data fields and reports to ease administrative burden, reducing the time needed to stand up value-based payment models, supporting multi-payer and provider alignment, and reducing barriers to entry to increase the number of providers, and beneficiaries, in VBC. ● Supporting real-time care delivery and coordination by ensuring value-based care providers have real-time access to comprehensive demographic, enrollment, contact, claims, and cost data. ● Maintaining VBC arrangements by promoting visibility for all parties into utilization and financial performance to support care continuity for beneficiaries through provider sustainability, including bidirectional data sharing between providers and plans. ● CMS could approve and recommend a standard minimum set of data reports, with a standardized set of comprehensive data fields, for plans to share with VBC providers in order to strengthen the ability of VBC to drive high-quality, cost-eﬀective care. ● CMS can continue leveraging Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) to improve real time communication between systems. Access to timely, comprehensive data is important for both providers with an existing treatment relationship and providers new to a beneficiaryʼs care team, to allow for care that leverages collaborative interdisciplinary care teams or wraparound services. CMS could also design a mechanism to give VBC providers a unique Contract-ID to allow provider access to specific components of payer data housed on CMS systems, subject to Medicare Advantage plan approval. www.cityblock.com 6 