VIA ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION
June 13, 2025
The Honorable Dr. Mehmet Oz
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
8013, Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem [CMS-0042-NC]
Dear Administrator Dr. Oz:
The Bipartisan Policy Center appreciates the opportunity to submit comments in response to
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ request for information on CMS-0042-NC,
“Health Technology Ecosystem.”
BPC and its advocacy affiliate, Bipartisan Policy Center Action (BPC Action), are unique in
their approach to addressing the nation’s most pressing issues. As the only organization
working across the full political spectrum on domestic issues, BPC brings together diverse
perspectives to craft data-driven, pragmatic policy solutions. BPC Action then works directly
with legislators and other policymakers to turn those solutions into real change.
For more than 20 years, BPC and BPCA have been consistently achieving results on complex
issues, demonstrating that bipartisan cooperation is not only possible but essential for lasting
solutions.
BPC’s Health Program advances bipartisan policy solutions to build a more cost-effective,
evidence-based health care system to improve population health. We work to strengthen and
sustain Medicare and Medicaid, accelerate the shift toward value, address inefficiencies and
misaligned incentives, and responsibly leverage technology and innovation.
Our comments reflect BPC’s extensive work on Medicare Part B physician payment reform and
digital health. Responses to this request for information include opportunities to improve
electronic health record (EHR) system interoperability and enable access to high-quality
digital products. Relevant BPC resources include:
• The Need for Medicare Part B Physician Payment Reform

• Maximizing the Value of Remote Patient Monitoring
• From Promise to Best Practice: The Realities of Remote Patient Monitoring
• The Future of Remote Patient Monitoring
• Positioning Telehealth Policy to Ensure High-Quality, Cost-Effective Care
Our comments reflect BPC staff views and do not necessarily represent the official positions of
BPC’s founders or board of directors.
This letter includes BPC’s comments on select provisions of CMS’ proposed rule, and the
numbering system throughout this document reflects that of the proposed rule. While BPC
did not comment on every provision in the proposed rule, such omissions should not be
interpreted as a lack of interest in the proposals.
Patients and Caregivers
1. Patient Needs
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and
manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take?
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones'
health that can be enabled by digital health products?
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things
you would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be
supported or facilitated by software solutions in the future.
Patients and caregivers benefit from digital tools such as remote patient monitoring that offer
real-time, actionable insights into their health. Remote monitoring solutions show promise in
improving clinical outcomes and reducing costs, when used appropriately. These devices
enable patients to send real-time data to their providers, who can remotely help them manage
conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, musculoskeletal disorders, and mental health
conditions.
Ebony Ford’s story illustrates the potential of remote monitoring. In 2017, Ebony was 25 weeks
pregnant when she developed symptoms of pre-eclampsia. She eventually underwent an
emergency c-section and was placed on life support. During her next pregnancy, Ebony chose a
new health care team that prescribed a home blood pressure cuff, enabling Ebony’s doctors to
monitor her vitals, adjust medication in real time, and promptly advise her when to seek
further care. Ebony credits her healthier second pregnancy to having access to this virtual
support and her remote blood pressure cuff.
Artificial intelligence-driven health apps could further support Medicare beneficiaries in
managing chronic conditions. These apps could aggregate a patient’s medical history,
medications, and wearable data to provide tailored alerts (e.g. to take medications or schedule
preventive services) to patients and caregivers.
2

For additional details, see BPC’s video, Maximizing the Impact of Digital Health Technology.
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in
these digital health products?
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on
the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in
the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review
process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can
increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example,
enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary
communications)?
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated
data on patients?
To enable timely access to high-quality data, CMS should require remote patient monitoring
(RPM) claims to include key details on the type of monitoring. A recent report by the Health
and Human Services Office of Inspector General (OIG) identified data gaps that hinder CMS’s
ability to effectively oversee remote monitoring services. Medicare currently does not track the
type of RPM devices used and the specific health data collected (e.g., blood pressure,
respiratory flow rate). These data are key to understanding when and how these solutions
improve patient outcomes and reduce costs. Given the diversity of tools and conditions
covered under remote monitoring, CMS should be able to distinguish between different types
of monitoring.
Additionally, Medicare often lacks information about the providers involved in remote
monitoring, as it does not require ordering providers to include their identification number on
claims. “Incident to” billing, where clinical staff bill under a supervising physician’s national
provider identification number, further complicates service quality monitoring and can
obscure fraud detection. Both MedPAC and OIG have raised concerns about “incident to”
billing across health care services. CMS should require that providers eligible for direct
Medicare billing submit claims under their own identification number, rather than using
“incident to” billing. At a minimum, CMS should be able to identify and monitor this type of
billing.
For additional details, see BPC’s reports, Maximizing the Value of Remote Patient Monitoring
and The Future of Remote Patient Monitoring.
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and
easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited
prior experience using digital tools and services?
Making digital tools, such as remote monitoring devices, accessible and easy to use for
Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers is essential to their success in improving outcomes.
3

There are several strategies and features that can be applied throughout the treatment process
to achieve this goal.
Clear, published information on approved devices—including labels with details on how
devices perform across subpopulations—would help beneficiaries and caregivers make
informed choices. Choosing the best device can be challenging due to a lack of information
regarding the effectiveness of devices. Even FDA-regulated devices may vary in accuracy and
perform differently across demographic groups. For example, research has shown that pulse
oximeters can be less accurate on people with darker skin.
To ensure usability, products should feature intuitive design, clear instructions available in
multiple languages, and compatibility with smartphones via Bluetooth to minimize
broadband barriers. Patients often benefit from technical assistance and adherence reminders,
yet many providers lack capacity for consistent follow-ups. Care teams, including community
health workers and digital navigators, often help provide this assistance. Additionally,
generative artificial intelligence can help facilitate communication, such as through chatbots
that troubleshoot technical issues.
CMS could offer technical assistance to help providers establish remote monitoring protocols
that effectively engage patients, manage and secure incoming data, and respond to anomalies
within a reasonable timeframe.
For additional details, see BPC’s blog post, From Promise to Best Practice: The Realities of
Remote Patient Monitoring, and explainer, Maximizing the Value of Remote Patient
Monitoring.
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health
outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the
best means of doing so?
CMS could evaluate how digital health products perform in practice, to inform coverage and
quality improvement. CMS can leverage existing data streams, including Medicare claims,
hospitalization rates, and patient outcome metrics to compare cohorts who use a given digital
tool versus those who do not (while adjusting for risk factors). To support the analysis, CMS
could incentivize providers who adopt digital health products to submit outcome metrics for a
period of time post-launch, potentially leveraging functionality within the tools to ease the
reporting burden.
Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or
their caregivers or both?
4

a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other
technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data,
clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest
value, and why?
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility,
interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more
meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence?
To improve the accessibility and interoperability of clinical data to support meaningful
research, CMS and ASTP/ONC should collaborate with HRSA to inform efforts to simplify and
consolidate similar or duplicative federal grant programs designed to help clinicians,
particularly small and rural (non-hospital-affiliated) clinicians, adopt certified electronic
health record technology (CEHRT).
With input from CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HRSA, HHS should then report on and make
recommendations to Congress on any programs that require legislation for consolidation to
improve administrative efficiency, while ensuring there are no reductions to appropriated
funds.
Consolidating funding programs that are available to independent rural or small primary care
practices is critical to avoiding duplication and inefficiencies while supporting CEHRT
uptake. This approach aligns with the priorities of the administration.
In addition to enabling meaningful research, this focused streamlining and consolidation
could also simplify the data reporting processes that are inefficient and administratively
burdensome to providers. This would, in turn, leave providers with more time to deliver
patient care and, in reducing the inefficiencies of non-interoperable EHR systems, enhance
the types of clinical data sharing that lead to improved patient health outcomes.
BPC’s forthcoming report, Strengthening Primary Care: Medicare Physician Payment and
Related Reforms, will further examine these challenges and offer federal policy solutions.
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common AgreementTM (TEFCATM)
currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world?
a. Please provide specific examples.
b. What changes would you suggest?
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA?
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access
and existing exchange purposes?
e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could improve
data access and integration?
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be consolidated?
5

g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread patient
access to their health information?
TEFCA represents a critical step toward building a unified, national approach to health
information exchange. It shows considerable potential in addressing longstanding barriers to
seamless patient health information exchange across providers, payers, and patients.
However, the Agreement needs stronger alignment with CMS-led payment reforms and
broader health system transformations to fully realize its promise. As AI becomes more
prominent in the health care technology landscape, its inclusion in interoperability standards
will be necessary.
BPC’s Health Program is continuing to explore opportunities to strengthen interoperability
across the health care system, including potential reforms to fully realize the potential of the
TEFCA framework to advance the goals of value-based care. In the coming year, BPC will
release a report with relevant recommendations to advance more seamless data sharing and
to support better care coordination and patient outcomes.
Providers
1. Digital Health Apps
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural
areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for their
patients?
a. What are the current obstacles?
b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products in
the provision of their care?
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a digital product
by a patient?
There are multiple barriers to providers adopting high-value digital products. Establishing a
high-quality remote monitoring program demands significant investments in devices, new
technology infrastructure, and adapting care workflows—often hurdles for under-resourced
facilities already operating under tight budgets.
Medicare’s current reimbursement structure, however, does not account for these challenges.
Average Medicare reimbursement for these services has decreased at a faster rate than overall
reductions in the Physician Fee Schedule conversion factor, partially because the practice
expense (PE) methodology may not fully capture the costs of software-based technologies.
Additionally, geographic adjustments further reduce reimbursement for rural providers. These
adjustments are not appropriate for digital tools, as deployment costs for such tools generally
do not vary by location, and they disincentivize national companies from offering digital
solutions in rural areas. Medicare’s billing rules are another obstacle to adoption of remote
6

monitoring tools. Rigid requirements, such as requiring 16 days of data per month, often
misalign with clinical needs and make reimbursement more difficult for providers.
To encourage more providers to leverage high-value remote monitoring tools for their patients,
CMS should eliminate geographic adjustments that reduce payments to providers serving
rural and lower-cost areas, ensure reimbursement levels are adequate overall, and simplify
billing requirements that create administrative burden without adding value. Additionally,
remote monitoring services align well with risk-based models – such as bundled payment or
partial capitation – that link reimbursement to outcomes. These models naturally incentivize
providers to focus on effective patient targeting and higher-value applications of digital tools.
Further, CMS should require providers to periodically reassess whether remote monitoring
remains beneficial for their patients. Evidence suggests remote monitoring is most effective
when used for a focused period of active monitoring. A recent OIG report found that one in
four Medicare patients who received remote monitoring did so for longer than nine months.
While extended monitoring may be appropriate for some patients, it often has limited value
for those with well-controlled conditions. For example, most medication adjustments for
hypertension occur within the first four months of monitoring. In traditional Medicare, where
fee-for-service payments dominate, providers may have financial incentives to prolong
monitoring beyond their clinical benefit. Medicare should require periodic reassessments to
ensure it is covering these services only as long as patients need them.
For additional details, see BPC’s report, Maximizing the Value of Remote Patient Monitoring.
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization
of the most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality
measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these
obstacles be mitigated?
Digital health applications that support physician workflows face several barriers to
development and use. Some tools do not effectively integrate with EHR systems due to limited
interoperability, lack of a clear regulatory or liability framework for AI-generated content, and
CMS reimbursement and quality reporting programs that do not adequately reward providers
for adopting tools that increase efficiency. While some of these tools can improve the accuracy
of clinical documentation and billing processes, which can lead to better care and quality
reporting, they often require upfront investments in both technology and workflow design.
Without policy incentives to encourage both the development and adoption of these tools,
stakeholders may be hesitant to invest the necessary resources.
PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural
areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage
format (for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes,
structured data fields)? Please address all of the following:
a. Current challenges in accessing different data formats.
b. Impact on patient care quality.
7

c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility.
d. Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable.
e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs.
Ensuring that all data within an EHR system—regardless of format—is accessible for
exchange is essential to advancing health care delivery and interoperability in both urban and
rural areas. This is especially important given CMS’ interest in advancing value-based,
preventive models of care and corresponding requirements that participants in alternative
value-based payment models use certified EHR technology (CEHRT).
Despite some progress in promoting interoperability, many EHR systems have yet to achieve
the critical mass necessary to fully realize the potential of value-based payment models.
Clinicians in rural communities, in particular, experience acute barriers to accessing and
sharing CEHRT data. This is often due to limited resources, reduced access to technical
infrastructure, and workforce shortages that already constrain care delivery and hamper
clinicians’ efforts to participate in value-based models of care. When clinicians lack timely
access to complete patient information, fragmented and inefficient care can result.
Not only can this be costly, but it undermines the goals of value-based care and, more
specifically, hinders the CMS Innovation Center’s efforts to unlock data access to improve
quality and reduce health system costs.
BPC’s Health Program is continuing to explore opportunities to strengthen EHR
interoperability. In the coming year, BPC will release a report with relevant recommendations
to advance more seamless accessible data sharing.
2. Data Exchange
PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality,
timely, and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital
product ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be
mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics that providers are
already motivated to optimize for that could be reused for, or combined with, efforts
needed to support interoperability?
To support high-quality, timely data exchange and reduce provider burden, CMS should
prioritize the standardization and alignment of health care quality measure data—
particularly in primary care—across payers and models.
Today’s fragmented quality measurement reporting requirements often require clinicians to
report slightly different versions of similar metrics across payment models and programs,
wasting time and resources as well as discouraging participation in value-based models.
Aligning reporting requirements for these quality measures would ease administrative
8

burdens and enable clinicians to focus on care delivery rather than navigating redundant
reporting tasks.
CMS should build on initiatives like the National Quality Strategy, the Universal Foundation
for Quality Measures, and the Core Quality Measures Collaborative to develop standardized
metrics that leverage structured data already captured in EHRs during routine care—such as
vitals, labs, and medications. By designing metrics around existing workflows and actionable
clinical information, CMS can promote interoperability and data availability without
imposing additional documentation requirements on providers.
BPC’s forthcoming report, Strengthening Primary Care: Medicare Physician Payment and
Related Reforms, will further examine these challenges and offer federal policy solutions.
Payers
PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical quality data
responsibilities of providers?
Payers can simplify clinical quality data responsibilities of providers by ensuring any billing
requirements that create administrative burden add value. Certain Medicare billing rules are
misaligned with clinical need and make reimbursement more challenging.
For instance, Medicare requires that patients collect at least 16 days of data per month for
providers to receive reimbursement. However, the amount of data that providers need varies
by condition; for example, providers might only need a few days of foot temperature data to
monitor diabetic patients at risk of developing foot ulcers. Additionally, Medicare requires
providers to spend 20 minutes per month conducting treatment management—which must
include live patient interaction—to bill for these services. Yet remote monitoring often largely
involves patients collecting and care teams analyzing data outside of live interactions.
CMS should simplify billing requirements that create administrative burden without adding
value and ensure requirements align with clinical need. As a first step, CMS should enable
billing codes for fewer than 16 days of monitoring and 20 minutes of live patient interaction
per month.
For additional details, see BPC’s blog, From Promise to Best Practice: The Realities of Remote
Patient Monitoring.
Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
1. Ecosystem
9

TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare
beneficiaries and caregivers?
CMS should modernize its reimbursement policies to stimulate developer interest in building
digital health products. As discussed in sections PR-1 and PA-5, Medicare billing requirements
sometimes add unnecessary administrative burden, and reimbursement may not adequately
account for the significant investments needed to establish a high-quality remote monitoring
program. Developers consider past failures—such as FDA-approved products that went out of
business due to limited uptake—when assessing market viability. Limited uptake due to
reimbursement challenges may limit developer interest in building additional innovative
solutions. CMS should eliminate geographic adjustments that reduce payments to providers
serving rural and lower-cost areas, ensure reimbursement levels are adequate overall, and
simplify billing requirements that create administrative burden without adding value.
CMS should also take steps to establish clear, predictable reimbursement pathways for high-
value digital health products. Many of these products fail to fit into outdated benefit
categories, creating uncertainty about whether and how CMS will reimburse them. Developers
are hesitant to invest time and resources into innovation without clear expectations from
CMS on coverage pathways. To address these issues, CMS could consider establishing a digital
health "sandbox" program. Such a program could allow for early, non-binding engagement
between CMS and developers, providing clarity on coverage pathways and real-world evidence
expectations. Building on CMS’s experience with sandbox models for data access and
interoperability, this approach could offer a structured but flexible framework to accelerate
access to safe and effective digital tools for Medicare beneficiaries.
2. Technical Standards and Certification
TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform?
TEFCA creates a nationwide network that enables real-time clinical data exchange across
previously siloed health information networks. Through a single common framework, TEFCA
standardizes how participants verify identity, track data provenance, and exchange patient
information, while supporting both query-based retrieval and push-based sharing of data. This
allows for secure and scalable interoperability between health systems, payers, public health
agencies, and other sectors.
For AI-enabled tools, TEFCA could enable access to high-quality, standardized clinical data
from across care settings and geographies. However, access to this data is currently
limited. Developers generally need to partner with TEFCA participants, such as providers or
health systems, and can only use data for certain purposes, typically treatment, payment, and
health care operations. Broader use for activities like AI model development are not generally
permitted under current rules without data de-identification or patient authorization; future
updates to the framework could explore opportunities to safely expand permissible uses.
10

3. Compliance
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers,
including CMS?
d. What would further motivate solution development?
Telehealth services, especially the practice of “incident to” billing—which allows
nonphysician providers to bill under a supervising physician’s national provider identification
number—would benefit from greater price transparency and reporting. Before COVID-19,
“incident to” billing enabled nonphysician providers—such as nurse practitioners or
physician assistants—to bill under a supervising physician’s higher rate, provided the
physician was physically present in the same office. Since COVID-19, CMS has allowed for
“virtual supervision,” in which the physician is available online as needed. MedPAC has raised
concerns about “incident to” billing—for telehealth and more broadly—noting that it makes it
harder to monitor the quality of services.
To improve price transparency, CMS should phase out “incident to” billing for providers who
can bill Medicare directly. Although BPC recommends eliminating “incident to” billing, a good
first step would be for CMS to identify and monitor this type of billing.
CMS should also create a modifier or provider category to identify and monitor fully virtual
providers in Medicare. Data on the prevalence and quality of fully virtual telehealth providers
is limited because Medicare claims do not include information on a provider’s employer or
corporate affiliation. Notably, MedPAC estimates that 20% of behavioral health providers
operated exclusively online in 2022. If feasible, CMS should also evaluate what portion of
telehealth providers are fully virtual companies, versus individual practitioners who have
shifted their practices to remote.
For additional details, see BPC’s blog, Positioning Telehealth Policy to Ensure High-Quality,
Cost-Effective Care.
Value-Based Care Organizations
1. Digital Health Adoption
VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care organizations
(ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) to leverage digital
health management and care navigation products more often and more effectively with
their patients? What are the current obstacles preventing broader digital product
adoption for patients in ACOs?
11

Digital health tools, including AI-powered care navigation platforms, patient engagement
apps, and remote monitoring technologies could help providers meet the goals of value-based
care. However, accountable care organizations (ACOs) may hesitate to adopt these tools due to
high upfront costs, challenges integrating new tools with existing electronic health record
systems, limited reimbursement opportunities under traditional fee-for-service models, and
uncertainty about the return on investment. ACOs serving low-income or rural populations
may also face concerns about patient access to broadband services and digital devices, which
can limit the effectiveness and reach of digital health management tools.
2. Technical Standards
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in implementing
value-based care programs?
In interviews with clinician stakeholders and policy experts, BPC heard that a major challenge
to implementing and achieving success within value-based payment models is the persistent
lack of EHR interoperability, such that EHR systems often cannot share data easily or
seamlessly. In real terms, this hampers both care coordination across providers and access to
the real-time feedback necessary to improve patients’ outcomes and better control costs
within alternative payment models. This persistent lack of EHR interoperability is
compounded by misaligned quality measurement reporting requirements across payment
models and payers, both of which further fragment data collection and increase clinician
burden.
BPC’s forthcoming report, Strengthening Primary Care: Medicare Physician Payment and
Related Reforms, will further examine these challenges and offer federal policy solutions.
Sincerely,
Jonathan Burks
Executive Vice President
Economic & Health Policy
12