Point32Health
1 Wellness Way
Canton, MA 02021
point32health.org
February 23rd, 2026
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Ave SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: Request for Information - Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as part of
Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
On December 23rd, 2025 , the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in partnership with
Office of the Deputy Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP) and Office of the
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) (collectively, ASTP/ONC) released a
Request for Information soliciting information regarding seek broad public comment on what HHS can
do to accelerate the adoption and use of AI as part of clinical care. Point32Health welcomes the
opportunity to provide insight into this critical matter.
Point32Health, the parent company of Harvard Pilgrim Health Care and Tufts Health Plan, is a leading
not-for-profit health and well-being organization dedicated to delivering high-quality, affordable health
care. Serving nearly 2 million members, our purpose is to guide and empower healthier lives.
As the Administration addresses emerging issues surrounding artificial intelligence, we would appreciate
consideration of the below factors. We believe these factors are important to achieve the promise of AI
and optimize its positive impact on the average American through increased efficiencies, lower costs,
and improved quality of care.
i. Sustainability and Efficiencies
• Savings Pass-Through: If AI increases provider productivity and reduces
administrative waste, those savings should be passed on to members, through
their health plans, using proper coding and reduced rates. If AI is used to
significantly reduce the necessity of human input, then it should be appropriately
coded so that such savings flow through the health care system. In addition,
federal coding should be re-evaluated as appropriate. For instance, the
Resource Based Relative Value Scale (RBRVS) system currently assumes
virtually all human execution.
• Democratization of AI: Smaller hospitals, providers, health plans and other
elements of the health care system could benefit greatly from AI. However, cost
prohibitive pricing from AI companies could squeeze out the very players that
could benefit the most. Public policy should advance mechanisms through
which smaller players can afford to access AI as well.

Point32Health
1 Wellness Way
Canton, MA 02021
point32health.org
• AI to AI: As different players in the health care system and wider community
begin utilizing AI, public policy should facilitate the efficient interaction between
AI systems. For instance, if a hospital is using AI to provide claims information,
it may be more efficient to have that AI interface with another AI rather than call
a human customer service representative.
ii. Safety Standards
• Human in the Loop: A consistent requirement that humans must remain a part of
the clinical decision-making process to ensure accountability.
• Required Training: The notion of “garbage in, garbage out” is critical in the AI
space. Crafting appropriate prompts and assuring that critical patient data is
communicated is critical to using AI in any clinical use case. Therefore,
clinicians that will be utilizing AI as part of their practice should go through
appropriate training. Medical schools haven’t prepared clinicians for this new
technology. And while it is easy to develop any prompt for AI, it takes training
and skill to develop effective prompts that will enable safe AI clinical support.
• Health IT Safety Center: Revisiting the idea of a national center focused
specifically on the safety of AI-supported clinical decisions to prevent harm or
death. Public Policy makers should ensure that AI vendors transparently
disclose critical information that guided the development of their health care AI
products. Experts should identify the critical elements, for instance – what
populations were used to train the AI? Vendors should be required to publish
ongoing statistics identified as critical by AI and health care experts – such as,
what percentage of AI diagnoses are over-ruled by human clinicians? How often
does AI fail to prompt clinicians for missing data critical to patent evaluation?
Etc.
• Broad Application of Rules: Any AI system that influences a medical decision
should be subject to the same high standards of transparency and safety,
regardless of what that entity is called (e.g. non-medical devices, software as
medical devices, digital therapeutic, etc.)
iii. Transparency and Traceability
• Mandatory Tagging: Any official documentation (claims, appeals, diagnoses)
generated or assisted by AI must be explicitly labeled as such to distinguish it
from human-generated work.
• Chain of Custody for Logic: There should be a requirement to maintain a
record of the AI’s cognitive processes and the specific prompts used by
clinicians to justify medical decisions.
• Audit Requirements: Healthcare entities using AI for clinical care should be
subject to regular federal audits to address dangerous AI use or cost creep
through upcoding. This should include:
o Prompt Transparency: Ability to access specific prompts used
by clinicians to ensure they were accurate and unbiased.
o Overrule Rates: Tracking how often a human clinician
disagreed with or overruled the AI's recommendation as a
metric for effectiveness.

Point32Health
1 Wellness Way
Canton, MA 02021
point32health.org
o Safety Reporting: Establishing a mechanism to report
instances where AI-driven decision support resulted in
incorrect treatment or patient harm.
iv. Regulatory Reform and Interoperability
• Data Emancipation: Public policy should prevent delivery systems (like hospital
networks) from gatekeeping patient data. Providers and EMR vendors should be
required to provide data for treatment payment and health care operations.
• Updating Medicaid/Medicare Rules: Existing regulations, such as network
adequacy and staffing ratios (e.g., case manager-to-patient ratios), need to be
updated to account for the efficiency gains provided by AI.
• Interoperability: Policymakers should ensure that as part of interoperability,
delivery systems cannot charge high fees for data sharing. In addition, the
interoperability rules should be evaluated to ensure that they will facilitate the
use of AI with aggregated data to propel cost savings and efficiencies in the
future. It would be a waste of opportunity – as well as significant funds – if AI
applicability is not contemplated until AFTER interoperability is completely
implemented.
v. AI Tools can Reduce Administrative Friction in the Healthcare System and
Lower Medical Cost Trends for All Americans
• In 2020, the federal government established that if providers fail to adopt
certified electronic health record (EHR) technology (CEHRT), Medicare could
reduce their payment levels. Even though over 88% of Medicare providers have
invested in electronic health records, provider administrative burden remains
significant and problematic. The positive potential of EHR adoption has been
undermined because remote access to EHRs usually isn’t granted to payors at
all, or only at an additional cost. In some cases, this is because the EHR
vendors require providers to purchase additional licenses if payors are allowed
to remotely access the EHR. As a result, providers must continue to use faxes
and other outdated modes to communicate to health plans. Access obstacles to
EMR data currently pose a significant barrier to private sector innovation in AI for
health care and its adoption and use in clinical care. The integration of AI tools
and Large Language Models to optimize the scaled aggregation of health care
data should be applied across the healthcare delivery system to achieve real
interoperability. The same standards for AI Data accessibility should apply to
hospital networks, providers, EMR vendors and payors. This could be
accomplished more rapidly if CMS were to update the CEHRT standards in
coordination with adopting a uniform AI policy in health care as follows:
a) The EHR vendors would be required to allow payor organizations to
remotely access a provider’s EHR for treatment, payment and healthcare
operations as defined by HIPAA, without the imposition of additional fees
onto the provider client or the payor entity.
b) The provider licensing the EHR would be required to allow payor
organizations to access a provider’s EHR for treatment, payment and

Point32Health
1 Wellness Way
Canton, MA 02021
point32health.org
healthcare operations as defined by HIPAA, without the imposition of
additional fees onto the payor entity.
We appreciate that HHS has solicited comments on this emerging technology that is
rapidly expanding in use. We look forward to collaborating with the federal
government to advance meaningful use of AI in a manner that optimizes outcomes
for all Americans while minimizing risks.
Please contact me at Christina.Nyquist@Point32Health.org if we can provide
additional assistance.
Sincerely,
Christina Nyquist
Vice President, Federal Affairs