IMPROVING
HEALTH EQUITY
THROUGH DATA
An easy-to-use online data and mapping
platform that can help users evaluate
trends, access benchmarks, identify areas
of need, enhance community outreach,
and strategically target interventions to
improve health outcomes.

All the data you need.
All in one place.
PolicyMap is an online data and mapping platform, offering
unparalleled data quantity and quality, to help organizations
work toward more equitable health outcomes. We curate
and normalize data from over 150 public and privates
sources across geographies, accessible via our mapping
application or data license. Our data is research-ready, and
150+ 75k+
can help you locate areas with disparities in housing,
transportation, environment, access to nutritious foods,
economic opportunity, and physical and mental healthcare.
PUBLIC AND
INDICATORS
PRIVATE SOURCES
Current Partners
FEATURES
License data from more than 150 sources through our unified placed-based data ecosystem to feed
data lakes and internal applications, develop indices, and create analytics.
Identify gaps in service using maps of health conditions, SDOH, demographics, healthcare facilities,
environmental health, access to care, community assets, and more.
Create Community Health Reports, which include hundreds of indicators on access to care, health
behaviors, outcomes, morbidity, mortality, food security, and SDOH.
Upload your address-level data, such as facility, survey, and program locations, to view alongside
PolicyMap's layers and points.
Find areas that meet criteria, either for site selection or locating hot spots, by layering multiple data
indicators.
Download data for use in your own research, mapping, and analysis tools.
Vitamin Angels
“PolicyMap has played an incredibly important
role in helping Vitamin Angels to identify the
communities where our work is needed most and
in turn, has helped us reach even more
underserved pregnant women with the prenatal
vitamins they need to have a healthy pregnancy.”
-Technical Director for US Programs
at Vitamin Angels

Maricopa County
Department of Public Health
“PolicyMap is a great tool for us because it
is so easy to use. It’s very self intuitive. And
there’s just so many data points. It would
take us forever to try to map it or analyze it
on our own.”
-Epidemiology Supervisor at Maricopa
County Department of Public Health
BENEFITS POLICYMAP IS USED BY:
Understand Social Determinants of Health Commercial Health Plans
Improve health outcomes by understanding the many Health Systems
variables impacting community and public health where Hospitals & Community Health Centers
you work. Pharma Organizations
Health Tech and IT Companies
Simplify and Inform Strategic Community Health
Plans and Assessments Healthcare Consultants
Governments: City, County, State and
Create data-rich Community Health Needs Assessments,
Federal Government and Regional
Strategic Plans, Primary Care Needs Assessments, grant
applications, and more. Councils of Government (including
Housing, Health and Human Services,
Locate Partners and Community Assets
Community and Economic
Identify existing community assets such as housing
Development, Transportation, and
providers, schools, supermarkets, clinics, nonprofits, and
Grants areas)
others with whom to partner on your initiatives.
Health Foundations and Non-Profits
Target Health Equity Investments
Advocacy and Philanthropy
Make confident decisions about community needs and
Organizations
where to invest resources to better address community-
Educational Institutions and Medical
level health disparities.
Colleges
Feeding America
“PolicyMap does not require deep knowledge or expertise in
data analytics. Folks can sometimes get overwhelmed, caught
up in the technicalities of another platform that is not as
intuitive. PolicyMap is much easier to use. By clicking on a few
indicators, members can really begin to understand what’s
happening in their area.”
-Health Systems Innovation Director at Feeding America

Neighborhood-Level Analysis Authoritative and Relevant Continuously Updated
Analyze trends at a neighborhood and zip Data is curated, cleaned, normalized, and
Data includes current and historic time
code level. Data is always available at the always from authoritative sources. Our in-
periods. Quarterly updates ensure you are
smallest geography available from block house data experts can provide guidance on
accessing the most up-to-date information
group, zip code, and census tract, to metro, how to best use geographic data to achieve
you can get.
city, and state. your business goals.
ONE PLACE - ALL THE DATA YOU NEED SELECT SOURCES
* Unique to PolicyMap
DEMOGRAPHICS
• Bureau of Labor Statistics • Home Mortgage Disclosure
Population, race and ethnicity, age, sex, language, foreign
(BLS) Act (HMDA)
born, migration and immigration, households, families,
• CDFI Fund • HUD Low-Income Housing
elections, religion
• Census American Community Tax Credit (LIHTC)
INCOME Survey (ACS) • Institute of Museum and
Income, poverty, federal tax returns, economic • CANDID Library Services (IMLS)
mobility, location affordability, area median income, • Census Longitudinal Employer • IRS Statistics of Income
low mod, bankruptcy Household Dynamics (LEHD) • National Credit Union
• Centers for Disease Control Administration
HOUSING
and Prevention (CDC)/PLACES • National Nursing Center
Home sales, home values, rental units, residential • Centers for Medicare and Consortium
buildings, vacancy, affordability, cost burdens, federal
Medicaid Services • Nielsen TDLinx
housing programs
• Community Reinvestment Act • Social Security
LENDING (CRA) Administration
Mortgage lending by loan type, race and ethnicity and • Convenient Care Association • Substance Abuse and
income, small business loans, farm loans, banking • Data Axle Mental Health Services
• Department of Housing and Administration (SAMHSA)
QUALITY OF LIFE
Urban Development (HUD) • Reinvestment Fund
Crime, environment, transit access, commute to work,
• Department of Homeland • U.S. Census Bureau
energy, food access, libraries and nonprofits
Security • U.S. Department of
ECONOMY • Environmental Protection Agriculture (USDA)
Unemployment, labor force, detailed workforce Agency (EPA) • USDA Economic Research
demographics, jobs and industries • FBI Uniform Crime Reports Service (ERS)
• Federal Communications • USDA Rural Housing
EDUCATION Commission (FCC) Service (RHS)
School enrollments and populations, educational • Federal Deposit Insurance • US Department of Energy,
attainment, revenues and expenditures, school and school Corporation (FDIC) National Energy Technology
district performance • Federal Emergency Labratory (NATL)
Management Agency (FEMA) • U.S. Election Atlas
HEALTH
• Glenmary Research Center • U.S. Geological Survey
Drug overdoses, obesity, diabetes, infectious diseases, births,
and Association of Statisticians (USGS)
young mothers, prenatal care, uninsured populations, federal
of American Religious Bodies • Valassis Lists
programs, health resources, local foods, SDoH
• GreatSchools
FEDERAL GUIDELINES • Health Resources and Services
Opportunity Zones, New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC), Administration (HRSA)
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG),
Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)
SEE HOW POLICYMAP CAN HELP YOU.
Call or email us for more information.
info@policymap.com | 1-866-923-6277 (MAPS)
POLICYMAP is a benefit corporation whose mission is to make place-based data widely accessible in
order to drive positive change in communities and markets across the US.