CMS Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
We at Curai Health would like to thank CMS for inviting public comment on the Health
Technology Ecosystem RFI. Curai Health is an AI-enabled and driven virtual primary care
service with a mission to bring the world's best healthcare to every human being on the planet.
As a care-providing organization with a heavy focus on technology, we have provided responses
to the questions targeted at patient needs, provider groups, and technology vendors. Our
responses are highlighted in green below the questions they pertain to. We look forward to
working with CMS to continue to drive the health technology ecosystem forward.
Neal Khosla
CEO, Curai Health
neal@curai.com
1. Patient Needs
PC-1. What health management or care navigation apps would help you understand and
manage your (or your loved ones) health needs, as well as the actions you should take?
Digital health products that deliver care, help make it more accessible, or consolidate
information for personal use would help understand and manage health needs for myself and
my loved ones.
a. What are the top things you would like to be able to do for your or your loved ones' health that
can be enabled by digital health products?
Digital health products can enable the ability to have consistent and convenient access to
various care services (ranging from virtual urgent care to continuous primary care to care
navigation and coordination to chronic condition management) in one’s pocket. Digital health
services could also allow for management of care and monitoring of health for loved ones.
b. If you had a personal assistant to support your health needs, what are the top things you
would ask them to help with? In your response, please consider tasks that could be supported
or facilitated by software solutions in the future.
The most valuable tasks that a personal assistant could do to support one's health needs is in
taking on care coordination burden (appointment scheduling, paperwork) and in care navigation
(finding an in-network provider or specialist, etc).
PC-2. Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information in one
location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)?
No - in fact this fragmentation is commonly a significant barrier to helping provide oversight or
care for loved ones. And even on an individual basis, records are split between various

systems, especially when utilizing different healthcare providers for different services (e.g.
in-person urgent care visit with a hospital system, telemedicine visit with a healthtech company,
vaccine appointment with the state).
a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided?
In (rare) situations where data is accurately transmitted and synchronized between provider
groups, I as a patient can track my health in a unified spot. I have almost never seen a provider
use this information proactively.
b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one portal or
system to access all such health information?
As a patient, this would be a hyper-valuable asset to bring to a doctor's appointment (to show a
clinician a full and complete picture of one's health). This would also be very valuable when
changing care providers or moving, and directly replace a box full of paperwork / faxes from the
source to the target provider.
c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were
unavailable? What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones' complete health
information electronically and using it for managing health conditions or finding the best care (for
example, limitations in functionality, user friendliness, or access to basic technology
infrastructure)?
Even with current technologies and interoperability pushes, imaging data, claims data, and
encounter notes are almost never available for consumption (in contrast to prescriptions, lab
results, and electronic after-visit summaries). This is a limitation in functionality with many EHR
systems (though FHIR models and APIs for these data elements exist). In general, the biggest
obstacle for obtaining and managing this information is provider systems being willing to expose
this information in standards-compliant ways. As a concrete example of this, Apple Health can
ingest large swathes of FHIR data, but only if health systems choose to support exporting to
Apple Health via SMART on FHIR API connectors.
PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or personal health record apps
that would be useful to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers?
Curai Health serves as a unified AI-enabled virtual primary care app that helps fill care gaps and
is especially convenient for patients in rural areas or those with barriers to accessing care. Curai
also provides chronic condition management and care coordination / navigation services.
PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today?
Most healthcare applications are siloed, in that they have reasonable context into anything that
happens on their platforms, but generally struggle to connect patients with healthcare-related
events that happen off-platform. Increased emphasis on interoperability, as well as reducing the
burden of pulling in these resources, would greatly improve these apps.

a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet?
Many digital health and virtual care applications do not serve Medicare or Medicaid populations.
A big component of this absence is the fact that getting ready to serve these populations is
onerous on various fronts (certification, approval, compliance, reimbursement), which is
something that CMS could choose to speed up.
b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer?
Given CMS's Medicare and Medicaid populations, it is uniquely positioned to embrace digital
health and virtual care applications. Many of the groups served by Medicare and Medicaid have
to deal with access and convenience issues, and are (typically) plagued by chronic conditions
that need constant touch points and feedback loops to manage (which are very expensive to
handle in a brick-and-mortar environment). Digital health and virtual care (and technology more
broadly) can help these patients by meeting them where they are and leveraging constant touch
points to make them healthier.
PC-5. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in these
digital health products?
Outreach campaigns, promotions, and incentives would be beneficial in encouraging patient and
caregiver interest in these products. It is also worth noting that these products, when used in the
right circumstances, increase care access and provide convenience for groups that can
materially benefit from increased access and convenience.
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on the
basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in the sense
of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review process? What
technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient and
caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example, enhancements to data access,
reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary communications)?
In our opinion, putting digital health products through approval processes will serve to stifle
innovation, adoption, and reduce positive health outcomes. However, reviewing applications for
efficacy / quality / impact on health outcomes retroactively is something that should be done to
make sure that endorsed applications are appropriately serving the needs of patients.
Communication with patients, simpler data access, and reimbursement adjustments, as
suggested by the question, would all serve to increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital
health products.
b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated data
on patients?
A standards-compliant information exchange for CMS data (a la the FHIR APIs seen here:
https://developer.cms.gov/), with the ability for non-CMS provider groups to access CMS data
for patients under their care, would be beneficial to enabling timely access to this data. An

alternative approach would be for CMS to mandate that participating provider groups push data
via existing channels into health information exchanges, thus making said data accessible to
any group subscribed to the exchange.
PC-6. What features are most important to make digital health products accessible and easy to
use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers, particularly those with limited prior experience
using digital tools and services?
Ease of use and onboarding, accessibility, simplicity of user interface and experience, and
support for multiple modalities (voice, text, video) are key requirements to making digital health
products accessible and easy to use for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers.
PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health
outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the best
means of doing so?
Measuring health-related outcomes via value-based metrics feels like the best means of doing
so.
2. Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their
caregivers or both?
The most readily-available information for patients, caregivers, and providers alike are lab data
(and corresponding observations), immunizations, vitals, and medication records.
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other
technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, clinical
data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)?
The most difficult data elements to access are all listed in the question - claims data, encounter
notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, and prices are all not generally available.
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest value,
and why?
Encounter notes would be of immense volume, especially with the abilities of large language
models (LLMs) and other AI / machine learning tools to interpret, summarize, and utilize these
notes.
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility, interoperability and
integration of clinical data from different sources to enable more meaningful clinical research
and generation of actionable evidence?

The biggest barriers and challenges are standardization and adoption. There are many sources
of clinical data that are simply not available for researchers, vendors, or provider groups to
access and utilize in standard ways; and if some groups adopt the standards, others don't (or
subscribe to alternate standards).
PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient demographic, Medicare
coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D), what additional CMS data sources do developers view
as most valuable for inclusion in the API to enable more useful digital products for patients and
caretakers?
As mentioned above, clinical data and encounter notes would be incredibly valuable to enable
more useful digital health products.
a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today?
Many provider systems do not publish this information in any sort of programmatically
accessible or consistent fashion - those that do often fall back to using binary data (PDFs) to
push this information. This makes utilization more complicated than it strictly needs to be.
b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API experience?
Increasing the kinds of data returned by the Blue Button 2.0 API (as mentioned above), and
improving the ergonomics of the authorization flow (which involves complexity on both the
developer and the patient) would improve the experience.
c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API?
Yes - in particular, finding ways to include clinical information (Encounters,
DocumentReferences, Observations, etc.) and potentially including information shared via
health information exchanges would be crucial additions to the API.
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common AgreementTM (TEFCATM)
currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world?
At present, it is unclear if this is making a difference yet (though the potential is there).
a. Please provide specific examples.
As TEFCA remains optional, there is not a guarantee that any specific healthcare entity is a
participant (or connected to someone who is). Thus, from the perspective of a patient attempting
to access their health information in the real world, there isn't really a clear pathway to utilize
TEFCA.
b. What changes would you suggest?

Continuing to push for broader participation in TEFCA and aligning TEFCA with other standards
to make participation more straightforward would both help drive uptake and eventual patient
impact.
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA?
As mentioned below in PC-12a, scheduling, price transparency, and orders would all have
significant impact.
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access and
existing exchange purposes?
FHIR standards and health information exchanges are both working well to advance access.
The FHIR specification has allowed for health records to be shared efficiently (and even be
integrated into systems like Apple Health). Health information exchanges are allowing
information from provider groups to transmit more seamlessly (though not perfectly) between
each other.
e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could improve data
access and integration?
The standards that could improve data access and integration are already seeing good use
(see: HIEs, FHIR / USCDI, etc).
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be consolidated?
Yes - as mentioned in PR-6d and TD-6b, there is heavy overlap between FHIR + associated
standards like Smart-on-FHIR, FHIR profiling systems like USCDI / QICore, and TEFCA. In
addition, there is also redundancy between functionality in FHIR and legacy functionality in HL7
v2. Reducing the number of competing frameworks here and consolidating into fewer paths will
be beneficial.
g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread patient access to
their health information?
Partially - direct Smart-on-FHIR access to supported health systems and plans allows patients
to easily see and control their own health information, but support for this is not comprehensive.
TEFCA will help push on this.
PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient
access to health information in the real world?
Most HIEs support patients requesting their own data, or provide healthcare provider groups the
ability to request patient consent to have a provider system access said patient's HIE data.
a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?

In general, very valuable and available, with accuracy depending on the type of data being
shared. Data with normative status tends to be more accurate than less normative data.
b. What changes would you suggest?
Continuing to push for reciprocity from groups pushing / pulling from HIEs, and further
normalization of data standards across HIEs, would be helpful changes in further improving the
quality and availability of healthcare data.
c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe should be
propagated across markets?
The highest performing HIE models we have seen transact in FHIR, apply standardization rules
at the point of pushing into the network, and work to simplify downstream work for provider
groups and consumers.
d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities facilitating data exchange and broader
frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health information networks, TEFCA,
private exchange networks, etc.)?
There is clearly overlap between these various groups - in our opinion, having HIEs take the
next step and become QHINs would reduce confusion and complexity in this crucial area.
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients and
caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or eliminate barriers to
competition among providers or both?
a. Examples may include the following:
(1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods.
(2) Viewing provider schedule availability.
(3) Using third-party apps for appointment management.
(4) Accessing patient-facing quality metrics.
(5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs.
In our opinion, the most valuable use cases are also the ones that are most impossible today -
meaning price transparency, scheduling, provider directory lookups, and orders (lab and RX).
Currently, scheduling and orders in particular require bespoke integrations and connections,
which greatly complicates care navigation.
b. What use cases are possible today?

At present, the only use cases that are truly possible are pulling and pushing information from
information exchanges.
c. What should be possible in the near future?
There are vendors that have come up with elegant solutions for ordering, but these are vendor
specific. There are international examples of ordering workflows being standardized (see: UK
and Norway) - so this should be possible if backed by the appropriate resources.
d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve?
Scheduling would make care navigation a breeze, but at present is incredibly unique on a
per-provider-system basis. Solving provider availability / scheduling / appointment booking in an
interoperable, consistent way would make a huge difference in terms of impactful operational
health data use cases.
3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information blocking
complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would
increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively impact data exchange?
Better publicizing the portal and making it even easier to submit blocking complaints would
encourage broader usage and utilization. Increasing the public reporting of complaints should
positively impact data exchange.
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other
NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
a. What are the challenges today in getting patients/caregivers to sign up and use digital identity
credentials?
The biggest challenges with digital identity credentials are usability, especially with
less-technically-savvy populations, as well as fragmentation - each of the digital identity
solutions mentioned above sees practical real-world use, and one needs to remember
passwords for all of them.
b. What could be the benefits to patients/caregivers if digital identity credentials were more
widely used?
Increased usage of digital identity credentials by patients and caregivers would theoretically
allow for patient identity verification, and could serve as a mechanism to uniquely identify an
individual without relying on patient-reported metadata.
c. What are the potential downsides?

As mentioned above, usability and fragmentation (as well as a heavy reliance on critical
third-party vendors) are a potentially large downside. Many individuals are uncomfortable with
the concept of a unified digital identity profile being a prerequisite for access to care; in addition,
many of the populations served by CMS / Medicare / Medicaid may not be the most comfortable
with these digital ID solutions (which require credentials as well as multi-factor auth and / or
passkeys).
d. How would encouraging the use of CSPs improve access to health information?
Given the benefits and downsides above, encouraging the use of CSPs, coupled with digital
identity credentials being accepted as a means to access health information, would certainly
improve access, with a large caveat that the downsides listed above still apply in force.
e. What role should CMS/payers, providers, and app developers have in driving adoption?
CMS, payers, and app developers could strongly suggest (or even mandate) that patients sign
up for digital identity credentials before receiving care. Again, the downsides of a mandate
should be weighed against the benefits.
f. How can CMS encourage patients to get digital identity credentials?
CMS can incentivize this via outreach / marketing, or in a more rigid fashion mandate this as a
precursor to digital (not physical) care.
C. Providers
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to use
cases and workflows that involve providers. While we certainly want providers to answer
questions in this section (and in other sections) from the provider point of view, we also invite all
stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the provider workflows as appropriate.
1. Digital Health Apps
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those in rural areas,
to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health products for their patients?
CMS and partners can incentivize provider groups to leverage digital health products as a part
of the end-to-end care journeys of patients. This would be impactful in general, but especially
impactful in rural areas where access to care is a significant barrier to positive health outcomes.
a. What are the current obstacles?
Digital health companies generally stay away from working with CMS and partners because of
onerous certification requirements, high barriers to entry, and unclear pathways for
reimbursement (particularly if a digital health company provides virtual care). Finding ways to

expedite approval / certification processes and clarifying reimbursement pathways would go a
long way towards addressing the current obstacles.
b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products in the
provision of their care?
Providers should share (and know) the reasons for recommending a particular digital product
and any privacy / security / data sharing considerations that are involved in the provisioning and
use of the digital product(s). In addition, particularly when working with populations that may not
have the most advanced technical literacy, it would also be beneficial for providers to walk
patients through how to use the digital products they recommend.
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a digital product by a
patient?
Providers must ensure that the digital product serves a clear care need, and that they are able
to articulate what the product does in full.
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective utilization of the
most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows, such as quality measurement
reporting, clinical documentation, and billing tasks? How could these obstacles be mitigated?
The biggest obstacles to developing and deploying innovative applications for physician
workflows are closed EHR systems, which do not expose externally the APIs and programmatic
interfaces that they utilize internally for all functions. Mandating that provider systems (from
intake through clinical notes through to billing) have open APIs would go a long way towards
mitigating these obstacles and allowing for useful and innovative applications to be developed
and deployed.
PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and rural areas
that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless of storage format (for
example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results, free text notes, structured data
fields)? Please address all of the following:
As a technology company and a provider network, it is crucial that all data in a system be
accessible for exchange, even if formats are not fully standardized (though some data elements
are more important than others, see also PC-8a and PC-8b).
a. Current challenges in accessing different data formats.
Historically, analyzing unstructured data has been a big barrier to utilizing different data formats.
With modern advances in OCR, image processing / recognition, and natural language parsing
and understanding, many of these issues are either mostly or fully mitigated, which then pushes
the barrier to pushing these different formats into exchanges.
b. Impact on patient care quality.

It is well understood that a full, holistic understanding of a patient's healthcare journey can lead
to more personalized care and better health outcomes as a result. Having access to all of a
patient's records (even those that are scanned / faxed / unstructured) helps build this holistic
understanding, and thus should be highly prioritized.
c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility.
Given the advances detailed above, the biggest technical barrier falls to EHR systems to find
avenues to push this unstructured data into exchanges (and for exchange protocols to support
these types of data elements). Given that FHIR (and similar) protocols support file uploads as a
fallback, this is mostly solved on the exchange side.
d. Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable.
There is a cost to EHR systems to push this data into exchanges, and a slightly larger digital
surface area (albeit unstructured) for a patient, which is a privacy implication; but the upside is
that a patient's care journey is significantly more continuous across provider groups.
e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs.
This is certainly an important interoperability area, but in our eyes secondary to enforcing
fully-featured open (EHR) APIs.
PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be needed for patients'
third-party digital products to have access to administrative workflows, such as auto-populating
intake forms, viewing provider information and schedules, and making and modifying an
appointment?
The types of administrative workflows and enhancements detailed here are also dependent on
open, standardized EHR APIs - in particular, intake forms, provider information, and
appointment scheduling are all dependent on provider EHR systems exposing this functionality.
For example, there is a formal appointment-booking workflow detailed in the FHIR spec, but the
implementations of this workflow across the most popular EHR providers do not conform to the
spec and require heavy coordination with individual provider systems (and thus are not-at-all
generic).
2. Data Exchange
PR-5. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you already support or utilize in your
provider organization's systems, directly or through an intermediary? For each, describe the
transaction model, use case, whether you use individual queries or bulk transactions, and any
constraints:
Curai Health runs a FHIR-native EHR, where all clinical data is stored in the FHIR format (US
Core and QI Core minimum compliance).

a. Patient Access API.
We support all patient access APIs, with both individual and bulk transactions.
b. Standardized API for Patient and Population Services.
Yes - we support the standardized API for patient and population services by virtue of deploying
a fully standards-compliant FHIR server and profiling our resources to US Core at a minimum.
c. Provider Directory API.
We collect and store all of the data required to power the Provider Directory API in FHIR, but do
not currently expose this API externally.
d. Provider Access API.
As we are not a payer, we do not expose this API, but have the ability to consume it when
impacted health plans and payer organizations begin supporting it.
e. Payer-to-Payer API.
As we are not a payer, we do not expose this API, but have the ability to consume it when
impacted health plans and payer organizations begin supporting it.
f. Prior Authorization API.
We connect to and utilize these APIs through vendor partners.
g. Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based access filtering for population-specific queries?
Yes, we support all bulk FHIR operations, including Group ID-based access filtering.
h. SMART on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and standalone app access? What
does the process for application deployment entail?
As our FHIR data is meant for internal use, we support EHR-launched app access (with
internally controlled deployments). We intend to support standalone app access in the future.
i. CDS Hooks (for clinical decision support integrations).
We utilize CDS hooks to power our internal clinical decision support modules.
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health information?
This remains to be seen.
a. Please provide specific examples.

As currently written, TEFCA is an opt-in for institutions choosing to become qualified health
information networks - this list currently includes a handful of major players (CommonWell, Epic,
Health Gorilla, SureScripts) but also notably excludes a number of other major players. In
addition, TEFCA has FHIR-based APIs on the roadmap, but this is still in draft.
b. What changes would you suggest?
TEFCA should reduce the certification burden of becoming a QHIN and commit fully to FHIR,
which has broad industry-wide support. In addition, there are a number of workflows that are still
not standardized (appointment booking, prescription and lab ordering referrals) - for
interoperability to extend beyond just data transfer and to clinical operations themselves,
additions to the standard are needed.
c. What other options are available outside of TEFCA?
Direct point-to-point integrations, using vendors like Health Gorilla, or engaging with networks
like CommonWell and CareQuality all remain options.
d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that could be consolidated?
Yes - in particular, FHIR + Smart on FHIR, TEFCA, USCDI, and similar are all just adjacent to
each other. In addition, HL7 v2 protocols remain in place and heavily used, which serves as a
barrier to modernization with FHIR.
PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-quality, timely,
and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability in the digital product
ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data availability and sharing be mitigated for
providers? Are there ways that workflows or metrics that providers are already motivated to
optimize for that could be reused for, or combined with, efforts needed to support
interoperability?
Providers are always looking for a complete picture of a patient's health journey, and as such
are incentivized to utilize information exchanges to pull health information that may have been
created outside of their own system. Utilizing these existing paved pathways, as well as
emphasizing reciprocity, would continue to improve interoperability and mitigate the burden of
sharing.
PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality data
responsibilities of providers?
CMS (or partners) could publish (or host) open source tools and frameworks for computing
derived clinical quality data from source (likely FHIR). This would standardize metric
computations and also incentivize provider groups to publish data in a format that is readily
usable by these tools and frameworks.

a. What would be the benefits and downsides of using Bulk FHIR data exports from EHRs to
CMS to simplify clinical quality data submissions? Can CMS reduce the burden on providers by
performing quality metrics calculations leveraging Bulk FHIR data exports?
Bulk FHIR data exports from EHRs to CMS would have the benefit of offloading clinical quality
data submission calculations to CMS, with the downside of needing to potentially implement
more FHIR APIs, ensure standards-compliant FHIR formatting, and dealing with auth key
exchanges. In our view, this would indeed reduce the burden on provider groups, despite the
tradeoffs.
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of providers be
consolidated so investments can be dually purposed?
As mentioned above, if quality reporting was able to be done automatically against a provider
group that publishes the information required for these computations in an interoperable manner
(e.g. via FHIR through an information network), then the provider's responsibility is simply to
interoperate, which clearly dual-purposes the investment.
c. Are there requirements CMS should consider for data registries to support digital quality
measurement in a more efficient manner? Are there requirements CMS should consider for data
registries that would support access to real-time quality data for healthcare providers to inform
clinical care in addition to simplifying reporting processes?
We believe that CMS and partners should continue to push for real-time (or near-real-time)
access to data in general, not just on the quality data front. This would allow for more-informed
care delivery workflows for provider groups and improve the quality of care dispensed overall.
3. Digital Identity
PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials (for example,
CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of proprietary logins that
need to be tracked for each provider relationship?
CMS could incentivize providers who accept approved digital identity credentials, or conversely
penalize those who do not.
a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set of trusted
digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of one for each provider?
If the single set of trusted credentials involves multiple different vendors, provider groups would
benefit greatly from a singular standard that unifies the vendors except for minor configuration
differences (for example, SSO via OAuth 2).
b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience and access to digital health
products and services that may lead to significant improvements in health?

As evidenced by the public comments already submitted for this RFI, the biggest barrier will be
patient adoption, distrust of these identity providers, and a lot of misunderstandings as to what
digital identity credentials really mean. Education and outreach will be very important to
addressing patient privacy concerns.
PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other
NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs):
a. What are the challenges and benefits for providers?
The clear benefits are in single sign-on capabilities across multiple systems for providers, with a
downside being the security risks with one master credential that, if compromised, would grant
unfettered access to a bad actor (this is largely mitigated by MFA standards, though not fully
so).
b. How would requiring their use improve access to health information?
From a provider's perspective, the assumption would be that this digital identity credential could
be used across multiple platforms and systems to grant access to necessary patient and
population information.
c. What are the potential downsides?
This places a large implementation burden on each platform and system to accept these
credentials and tie them to the appropriate levels of permissions and access.
d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a nationwide provider directory?
In our opinion, simply mandating digital identity credentials will not magically create or improve a
nationwide provider directory. Building that will require stitching disparate APIs and systems
together in a standardized way.
e. How could digital identity implementation improve provider data flow?
In theory, a standardized view of identity would allow for simplified authentication, which should
lead to improved provider data flow.
f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data flow?
Yes - if a digital identity credential could be resolved to a unique FHIR address, this would help
improve data flow.
PR-11. How could members of trust communities [3] (for example, QHINs, participants and
subparticipants in TEFCA, which requires Identity Assurance Level 2 (IAL2) via Credential
Service Providers (CSPs)) better support the goals of reduced provider and patient burden while
also enhancing identity management and security?

Standardizing authentication mechanisms via trust credentials, as proposed, would better
support the goals of reducing patient and provider burden while also improving identity
management and security.
4. Information Blocking
PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information blocking
exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171, subparts B through D) to
further the access, exchange, and use of electronic health information (EHI) and to promote
market competition?
We do not have access to data on the utilization of the information blocking exceptions or
conditions with exceptions - if these are being utilized heavily to block information flow, then
ASTP / ONC should certainly consider removing these sections. We have not seen these
exception cases used to prevent data flow in our interoperability integrations.
PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(3)), without a
current information blocking disincentive established by CMS, what would be the most effective
disincentive for that category of provider?
In our view, the most effective disincentive would be an inverted incentive - rather than penalize
provider groups for not sharing information, reward them for participating.
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking complaints to
ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it advance or
negatively impact data exchange?
Better publicizing the portal and making it even easier to submit blocking complaints (via EHR
integration?) would encourage broader usage and utilization - the data published by the ASTP /
ONC shows that the overwhelming majority of information blocking reports are submitted by
patients. Broader negative publicity for bad actors would shed light on the situation and
plausibly advance data exchange for the better.
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they relate to use
cases and workflows that involve technology vendors, data providers, and networks. While we
certainly want technology vendors, data providers, and networks to answer questions in this
section (and in other sections) from their point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide
their viewpoints on the technology vendor, data provider, and network use cases as appropriate.
1. Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate
developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers?

One of the biggest obstacles to working in the CMS / Medicare / Medicaid space are the number
of regulatory hurdles, ambiguous pathways to financial reimbursement, and latent complexities
of implementations. To address these points, we suggest that CMS create pathways to
efficiently clear regulatory hurdles and certify applications, with clear reimbursement pathways
that are stable and can be relied upon. We also suggest that CMS continue to push on
standards-based interoperability as a way to reduce complexity and integration overhead.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
The most valuable data that is not presently available through CMS would include clinical data,
encounter / visit notes, imaging, and cost data.
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue Button
2.0 API?
The most valuable data alongside Blue Button 2.0 includes data procured through health
information exchanges, medication adherence data (via SureScripts or equivalent), and
biometric data from wearables, etc.
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?
These data sources are disparate, isolated, and not necessarily standards-compliant, with
integration challenges and quirks.
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies to
unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
We believe that access and convenience are key components to improving health outcomes, so
emphasizing or enforcing APIs supporting virtual care would be beneficial to patients and
providers.
2. Digital Identity
TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
a. What are the challenges and benefits?
Digital identity implementation would convey security and standardization benefits on the part of
patients and application developers. On the flip side, there are ergonomic and usability
concerns for patient populations. In particular, in reading through the current comment
submissions for this RFI, there appears to be significant patient concern over the digital
“tracking” of patients and patient identity.
b. How would requiring digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other
NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybersecurity and data exchange?

As noted above, digital identity credentials confer cybersecurity benefits and simplify data
exchange by eliminating one-off and bespoke auth solutions in favor of more standard
approaches. However, while some patients will be excited to opt in, many will opt out.
c. What impact would mandatory use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol have?
As OpenID Connect is a very popular and standard authentication mechanism, this would have
a positive impact on interoperability in general and reduce integration complexity / variety.
3. Technical Standards and Certification
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available APIs
over proprietary APIs?
We suggest continued emphasis on embracing FHIR and downstream-of-FHIR APIs.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to health
information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a directory, and
should users bear a cost?
This would significantly improve discoverability, which is a key determinant of access. We
suggest that the CMS maintain this directory and take on the cost burden.
TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform?
TEFCA publishes and maintains standards and frameworks that allow for health information
exchange and interoperability.
a. What existing alternatives should be considered?
There are existing information exchanges that remain quite popular and see good utilization, like
CareQuality, CommonWell, and the information exchange utilities that layer on top of them.
b. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that should be consolidated?
Yes, on two levels. One is that there are duplicative elements of TEFCA rules, FHIR spec
standards, and FHIR profiles like USCDI. Another is that many exchanges continue to operate
on older information exchange protocols and frameworks, like HL7, which is redundant and
should be modernized.
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are its
limitations?
US Core imposes some order on the otherwise very flexible FHIR specification, particularly as it
pertains to normative resources like patients, observations, medications, etc. However, the spec
is not entirely comprehensive, and is of course not enforced.

a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
Not entirely - primary omissions include clinical diagnostic data and biometric data.
b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the way it is utilized?
The format, being derived from FHIR, is not the issue - this is primarily an issue of adoption and
utilization.
c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping challenges?
How could such challenges be addressed?
Additional data elements would definitely add value - the scoping challenges can be addressed
via phased roll-outs.
d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but less
structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more processing by the
receiver?
We believe that there are sufficient fallbacks to unstructured formats already present in USCDI
and FHIR, and so additional defined unstructured formats are unnecessary. In general,
structured data can always be processed into unstructured data, but the reverse is much more
difficult. Ensuring that the standard contains the minimum viable set of necessary data fields for
something to be meaningful, with free-text and unstructured fallbacks, is crucial.
TD-8. What are the most effective certification criteria and standards under the ONC Health IT
Certification Program?
The most effective certification criteria and standards are the requirement to use FHIR APIs and
emphasis on interoperability and integration.
TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT:
a. What are the benefits of redefining certification to prioritize API-enabled capabilities over
software functionality?
Prioritizing API-based capabilities allows for more types of companies and products to enter the
space, which will drive innovation and reduce the reliance on a few crucial vendors.
b. What would be the drawbacks?
On that same token, API-based certifications are more complicated to evaluate and implement,
as now you are certifying based on theoretical programmatic capabilities, not product
capabilities. This is mitigated by the fact that a company seeking certification will likely have to
show some product capabilities in order to certify the API.

c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certification criteria to require APIs to consistently
support exchanging data from all aspects of the patient's chart (for example, faxed records, free
text, discrete data)?
This will have to be a mandate to use modern APIs (like FHIR), apply profiles (like USCDI) to
enforce some basic data formats (even when the underlying data is unstructured), and allow for
fallbacks to binary data (like images or PDFs) for records that are not digitized.
d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to API-based
data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
CMS could choose to implement incentives (for comprehensive, timely responses to requests)
and penalties (for the opposite) for providers.
e. How could EHRs capable of bulk data transfer be used to reduce the burden on providers for
reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are needed to show benefit?
What concerns are there with this approach?
Utilizing bulk data transfer (assuming the utilization of standard FHIR APIs and data formats)
would allow for CMS to uniformly compute quality performance data from the source, rather than
have this reported by provider groups. This would be a fairly significant undertaking on the part
of CMS.
TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification Program, what
further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implement the 21st Century Cures Act's API
condition of certification (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv)) that requires a developer's APIs to
allow health information to be accessed, exchanged, and used without special effort, including
providing access to all data elements of a patient's electronic health record to the extent
permissible under applicable privacy laws?
ASTP/ONC should consider enforcing that the standard of interchange for these APIs be FHIR -
this would directly address the access, exchange, and “use without special effort” clauses in a
convenient, standards-based, and interoperable manner. Resources to promote this would also
be a tactical lever to speed adoption.
TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products certified through the
ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the capability to perform an
electronic health information export or “EHI export” for a single patient as well as for patient
populations (45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)). Such health IT developers are also required to publicly
describe the format of the EHI export. Notably, how EHI export was accomplished was left
entirely to the health IT developer. Now that this capability has been in production for over a
year, CMS and ASTP/ONC seek input on the following:
a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requirements for EHI export?
Yes - this should be standardized to a US Core-compliant FHIR bundle.

b. Are there specific workflow aspects that could be improved?
The patient consent step, in particular, is a key area for improvement.
c. Should CMS consider policy changes to support this capability's use?
Yes - in particular, imposing stricter time limits for responses to requests, and / or mandating
that this be real-time and patient initiated.
4. Data Exchange
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what criteria or
metrics should CMS consider?
Explicitly supporting other information exchanges and networks would be a clarifying point for
companies attempting to divine which networks would work best for their use cases. Quality and
quantity of data, quality and quantity of APIs, and integration ergonomics would all be criteria to
consider.
TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs providing access to
the entirety of a patient's electronic health information (EHI)?
This would enable a level of patient understanding and care personalization that has thus far
only been possible in concierge care settings. With many more levers to understanding and
summarizing vast volumes of information (like large language models), this will directly improve
practice efficiencies and quality and thus patient outcomes.
a. What are the primary obstacles to this?
The biggest obstacles to this are integration complexity and insufficient participation in the
exchanges that would support this. This would be mitigated by continuing to enforce
standards-based APIs (to simplify integration complexity) and continuing to require participation
in the exchanges.
b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI, especially given more flexible
data processing capabilities today?
USCDI has a very clearly defined and well-articulated structure, which breaks down when
something falls outside its purview. A true, full EHI realistically has much less structure (thus
requiring much more effort to process and parse) but is likely more complete. Given advances in
data processing capabilities, there is a ton of value in having access to a full EHI, but structured
data will continue to have value for more sophisticated use cases.
TD-14. Regarding networks' use of FHIR APIs:

a. How many endpoints is your network connected to for patient data sharing? What types,
categories, geographies of endpoints do you cover? Are they searchable by National Provider
Identifier (NPI) or organizational ID?
We are in the process of connecting our systems to a health information exchange vendor that
will write back to CareQuality and CommonWell. We cover our scope of service (telemedicine)
nationwide. When complete, we will be searchable by NPI and organization ID. We also have
deployed a handful of direct connections to health systems.
b. How are these connections established (for example, FHIR (g)(10) endpoints,
TEFCA/Integrating the Health Enterprise (IHE) XCA, or proprietary APIs)?
For inbound connections, FHIR. For outbound connections, we use a mixture of FHIR, HL7, and
proprietary APIs (not preferred but sometimes required).
c. Do you interconnect with other networks? Under what frameworks (for example, TEFCA,
private agreements)?
Yes - see above, we attempt to read and write information uniformly (via intermediary vendor) to
both CareQuality and CommonWell.
TD-15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs:
a. How would increased use of bulk FHIR improve use cases and data flow?
Bulk FHIR would allow for efficiently pulling and pushing a patient's full record
(Patient/$everything) into and out of shared networks. This will help build a better global
understanding of health at an individual and population level.
b. What are the potential disadvantages of their use?
As with most of these questions, the potential disadvantages are privacy and data (and data
processing) complexity.
TD-16. What are the tradeoffs of maintaining point-to-point models vs. shared network
infrastructure?
A point-to-point model allows for very rigidly controlled data flow, but makes any comprehensive
integration a complex N-part problem. A shared network has less restrictions on data flow, but
makes every member of the network's job easier.
a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participation?
To an extent, yes - there is pretty active participation in most of the biggest-name networks. But
even entities that participate in those networks also often fall back to custom APIs, which are
not scalable or generalizable.

b. What changes would improve alignment (for example, API unification, reciprocal access)?
The suggested changes (API unification + reciprocal access requirements) would help improve
alignment.
TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in ensuring
viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough supply and demand, that results
in usage and outcomes?
CMS and ASTP / ONC should incentivize participation and reimburse accordingly, and / or
implement penalties for non-compliant organizations.
5. Compliance
TD-18. Information blocking:
a. Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of practices you have
experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please include both situations of
non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a failure or unusable response?
The most common practices that we experience include fees to access data, arcane custom
implementation requirements that cannot be reused in any way, and incomplete implementation
of standards that prevent smooth transfer of information. This is in addition to situations where
data requests go entirely ignored.
b. What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS implement to further discourage
healthcare providers from engaging in information blocking practices?
As mentioned above, incentives (for organizations that share information well) and penalties (for
organizations that engage in information blocking) would be useful to encode in policy.
c. Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition of information
blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) that lack information
blocking disincentives?
We do not believe so.
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
Realistically, patients still do not really get price transparency on things outside of estimated
prescription costs. This can be ascribed to complicated data formats and very slow updates.
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?

Price estimation for procedures, referrals, and preventative care would in our opinion be the
most valuable areas to focus workflow improvements.
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers, including
CMS?
The ultimate general-purpose solution that benefits all parties equally would be a
comprehensive price transparency API (across all relevant domains, including Rx, visits,
procedures, etc).
d. What would further motivate solution development?
Adding reimbursement incentives to groups that participate in and provide price transparency
would help motivate solution development in this area.