ELLKAY Cover Letter
Dear Administrator,
ELLKAY appreciates the opportunity to respond to CMS’s Request for Information
regarding national standards for the healthcare technology ecosystem. Since 2002,
ELLKAY has been a trusted interoperability partner across the healthcare continuum,
beginning in the laboratory sector and expanding to serve hospitals, ambulatory
providers, payers, and digital health vendors.
Most recently, ELLKAY was selected as the new data platform for the CommonWell
Health Alliance, supporting more than 260 million patients across 33,000+ care
locations nationwide. As part of this initiative, we helped CommonWell get designated
asQualified Health Information Network (QHIN) under TEFCA, underscoring our
commitment to advancing national interoperability goals.
With a two-decade history of healthcare connectivity, ELLKAY has built, maintained,
and scaled a robust interoperability infrastructure that bridges a fragmented ecosystem.
Our technology connects thousands of organizations, from labs and hospitals to payers
and health IT innovators, while solving real-world challenges across diverse care
settings. This work has been driven by a shared mission among our 750+ employees
and healthcare partners to unlock the value of healthcare data.
Our interoperability framework is built entirely in-house, without reliance on third-party
platforms that could limit agility, scalability, or control. We are committed to delivering
secure, efficient, and adaptable data solutions tailored to the unique needs of our
clients.
Over the past year, ELLKAY introduced a focus on Strategic Data Management through
our three platforms: LKOpera, LKOasis, and LKOrbit. These are designed to orchestrate
connectivity and data management across the entire healthcare ecosystem. These
platforms reflect decades of refinement and market success, providing clients with a
single, trusted partner for end-to-end interoperability.
In this submission, we share insights drawn from our extensive experience serving
providers, payers, and value-based care organizations. We strongly support CMS’s
leadership in defining clear, actionable standards that enable a more connected and
patient-centered healthcare system.
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this important dialogue and for your
continued commitment to engaging stakeholders across the healthcare industry.

Sincerely,
GP Singh
Gurpreet Singh
Senior Vice President, Interoperability Solutions
GP.Singh@ELLKAY.com

2. Data Access and Integration
PC-8. In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to
patients or their caregivers or both?
a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers
and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for
example, claims data, clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports,
appointment schedules, prices)?
Currently, data designated under USCDI version 2 on FHIR is available in widely used
EMRs. Data outside these specifications such as claims and financial data, images,
appointment slots are more difficult to retrieve.
AI and Machine Learning technologies are getting better at reviewing documents,
images, etc. Improving access to images from PACS systems for example could help in
this area.
Claims data is also difficult to get. Typically, it requires retrieving historical 837/835 data
to interpret. This requires providers to go to their vendor or IT department to provide.
b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of
highest value, and why?
• Pharmacy Data: This data could yield insights into medication adherence and if
the patient picked up their prescriptions.
• Social Determinants of Health: This is important to determine patient risk factors
and also create treatment plans for patients. We have seen an increase in
applications that help at-risk patients navigate the health system and community
services. These applications find it difficult to send this data back discretely to
healthcare IT systems.
• Remote Patient Monitoring and Device Wearables: Trends from this data can
help determine the overall health of the patient.
• Genomics: This area is increasing in terms of the amount of data it’s generating.
Including genomic data can help accelerate research and identify risk factors.
c. What specific opportunities and challenges exist to improve accessibility,
interoperability and integration of clinical data from different sources to enable
more meaningful clinical research and generation of actionable evidence?
• Opportunities
o Adding more laboratories to our national clinical networks to allow
providers to pull patients’ historic labs. This may allow providers to identify
care gaps that need to be closed.

o Adding referrals as a use-case to national networks. Most referrals are
paper based.
o Creating a clinical research repository where organizations can submit de-
identified data and also access insights from the repository for research.
ELLKAY works with a significant number of labs, and a common issue we
see is that it’s difficult for labs to track a patient population’s prognosis,
which in turn makes it difficult for labs to publish the findings of their
research proving efficacy.
• Challenges
o There is a lack of a national patient identifier which makes it difficult to link
patient records across multiple sources.
o Patient referrals require authenticating providers on the network and
linking them to specific organizations/FHIR endpoints.
PC-9. Given that the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes basic patient demographic,
Medicare coverage, and claims data (Part A, B, D), what additional CMS data
sources do developers view as most valuable for inclusion in the API to enable
more useful digital products for patients and caretakers?
As stated, the Blue Button 2.0 API only includes demographics, coverage information,
and claims data.
Additional data sources that would assist with making the API more useful for digital
products for patients and caretakers are:
• SDOH data: Containing information on housing instability, food insecurity, and
transportation.
• Plan benefit information and eligibility: This would help in determining price
estimates and allowing patients to make more informed decisions.
• Prior Authorization Status: This gives providers and patients more clarity on
where they are in the prior authorization process.
a. What difficulties are there in accessing or utilizing these data sources today?
There needs to be a provider authentication framework established for them to access
this data. Also, the information needs to be exposed through APIs.
b. What suggestions do you have to improve the Blue Button 2.0 API experience?
• Include identity providers as another method for authentication via IAL-2
• Expand APIs and data to other CMS data stores
c. Is there non-CMS data that should be included in the API?

The API should include retrieving the patient’s clinical data from TEFCA so applications
can get the patient’s claims and clinical data from a single source.
PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreements
(TEFCATM) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in
the real world?
a. Please provide specific examples.
TEFCA has improved the framework and methodology for retrieving patient data.
Currently, certain networks recommend “geo-fencing” where provider organizations
query within a 50-mile radius for the patient’s data. This means that nodes on the
networks have to make a significant number of queries to find where the patient is
located and pull their charts.
However, people rarely stay within a 50-mile radius their entire life. Some people may
travel great distances to get care. Pulling their charts across their continuum of care
helps providers get access to the patients’ medical history and other data necessary for
care.
TEFCA has reduced the number of nodes that are needed to query for data by having
QHINs represent the facilities on their network (i.e. Epic CareEverywhere,
eHealthExchange, etc.).
b. What changes would you suggest?
TEFCA needs to be more than just another network that enables clinical data exchange
for treatment purposes. TEFCA needs to support additional use-cases such as IAS,
operations, etc.
c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through
TEFCA?
• Individual Access: Patients could use a single network to search across
thousands of facilities, HIEs, labs, and more to locate their medical records.
• Payer and operations use-cases: Many data requests today are manual or rely
on point-to-point connections. Transitioning these workflows to a secure, access-
controlled network would significantly improve efficiency.
• Population Health: Integrating a bulk FHIR framework into TEFCA would enable
applications to efficiently access longitudinal patient records for population
health, ACOs, and related use cases.
• ADT notifications: Real-time ADT alerts can notify care teams when a patient is
admitted, enabling proactive care coordination and smoother transitions of care.

• Research: Giving providers the option to contribute de-identified data to a
centralized repository would broaden access to clinical data for research,
supporting innovation in areas like drug and diagnostic validation.
d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance
access and existing exchange purposes?
• FHIR R4: Has simplified data accessibility and increased the scope of clinical
data that can be exchanged.
• CCDAs: CCDAs are still used by most EMRs to exchange data across the
network. Payers typically prefer to receive patient charts via CCDAs.
• HL7: Still the backbone of data exchange in health systems that require data
flows and orchestration within their infrastructure. HL7 is also widely used for lab
orders and results.
e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could
improve data access and integration?
• FHIR: It is used across major networks such as Carequality, CommonWell, etc.
to pull documents or CCDAs embedded in FHIR resources. These networks will
eventually move to a dynamic FHIR client registration model where discrete
FHIR APIs can be called to get individual data points. Also, EMRs
implementation of FHIR is limited to clinical data reads only. Most applications
require administrative data such as appointments and need the ability to write
back information. Adding these FHIR APIs will close gaps and simplify
integrations across a number of digital health applications.
• CDS Hooks: In our experience, we’ve seen the need for value-based care
applications to send the concept of a “suspected diagnosis” to a provider. This is
a diagnosis the application determines that a patient may have that is not
documented discretely in the chart. These applications may get this data across
the major networks or from the EMRs unstructured data. CDS Hooks are a
mechanism that would allow these applications to send the data back in as an
“unconfirmed” diagnosis for providers to acknowledge.
f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be
consolidated?
Eventually as more and more EMRs develop FHIR resources, they may consider using
those as the standard for document exchange as opposed to XML CCDAs.
Similarly, certain HL7 resources might be made redundant by FHIR.
g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread
patient access to their health information?

There are currently no alternatives outside of TEFCA for unified federal data exchange.
Networks such as CommonWell, Carequality, and eHealthExchange currently
exchange, but TEFCA provides a federated decentralized data exchange model that
allows all these networks to exchange data with one another.
PC-11. How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance
patient access to health information in the real world?
a. How valuable, available, and accurate do you find the data they share to be?
HIEs have traditionally aggregated clinical data from encounters across ambulatory and
acute facilities. Depending on the HIE, the data may be inaccurate or fragmented if their
patient matching algorithm isn’t effective. HIEs that offer additional features such as
event notifications generally have effective programs.
b. What changes would you suggest?
There are a few changes we would recommend.
• HIEs should make FHIR APIs available to patients and providers for data
access.
• Mandate that all HIEs that receive funding should join TEFCA.
• We are seeing HIEs expand into other areas of healthcare beyond traditional
entities such as ambulatory, acute, labs, etc. For example, we are working
with an ABA healthcare IT vendor that’s trying to integrate with an HIE. Their
feedback is that HIEs need to be more flexible with their data model and not
try to fit their use-case into traditional encounter-based data.
• HIEs should provide more proactive forms of data exchange such as ADT
alerts, lab results, or clinical notes. IHIE’s docs4docs program is a good
example promoting this data exchange.
c. Are there particular examples of high-performing HIE models that you believe
should be propagated across markets?
Some of the top HIEs we’ve worked with are:
- CRISP: Integrated across multiple states. They provide excellent integration and
have ADT alerts, SDOH data, prescription monitoring, and many more solutions.
- Manifest MedEx: Fantastic integration services. Provides ADT notifications,
analytics and data through FHIR APIs.
- IHIE: Their docs4docs program allows providers to access lab results, radiology
images, and clinical notes across the state.

d. What is the ongoing role of HIEs amidst other entities facilitating data
exchange and broader frameworks for data exchange (for example, vendor health
information networks, TEFCA, private exchange networks, etc.)?
HIEs should facilitate data exchange across broader frameworks such as TEFCA.
eHealthExchange is a QHIN under TEFCA and has a significant number of HIEs.
HIEs that are currently not part of TEFCA should be mandated to join provided they
receive federal funding.
HIEs are a critical component of healthcare data interoperability and maintaining the
patient’s record across the care continuum.
PC-12. What are the most valuable operational health data use cases for patients
and caregivers that, if addressed, would create more efficient care navigation or
eliminate barriers to competition among providers or both?
a. Examples may include the following:
(1) Binding cost estimates for pre-defined periods.
(2) Viewing provider schedule availability.
(3) Using third-party apps for appointment management.
(4) Accessing patient-facing quality metrics.
(5) Finding the right provider for specific healthcare needs.
Based on the applications ELLKAY has worked with in the care coordination space,
these are what we have seen as the most valuable operational use-cases:
• Viewing provider schedule availability: Care coordination platforms require timely
and accurate access to provider availability across a fragmented EMR
landscape. Many EMRs lack standard APIs to expose schedule data, requiring
integration through HL7 SIU messages (for booked appointments) and ingestion
of provider scheduling templates. While some vendors offer proprietary APIs,
they often impose transaction-based fees—which become cost-prohibitive due to
the frequency at which availability must be refreshed. Standardizing access to
provider availability through FHIR-based APIs would significantly enhance
efficiency, transparency, and usability across the ecosystem.
• Binding Cost estimates for pre-defined periods: Patients should be able to
access accurate, actionable cost estimates for common services and
procedures. For example, providing binding estimates for preventive services like
colorectal cancer screenings, including patient-specific out-of-pocket costs for in-
network providers, can improve affordability and encourage utilization of

essential care. Facilitating this use case aligns with CMS’s commitment to price
transparency and patient-centered care.
• Third Party App Integration for Appointment Management: Consumer-facing
scheduling tools (e.g., Kyruus, ZocDoc) are widely used but often limited to
providers operating on select EMRs with supported APIs. Expanding
interoperability standards and reducing integration barriers would enable broader
use of these tools, allowing patients to search for and schedule appointments
with a wider range of providers across specialties and geographies—supporting
both access and equity goals.
• Accessing patient facing quality measures: Patients should have access to
meaningful provider and facility-level quality data—such as satisfaction scores,
provider responsiveness, and infection rates—to inform their care decisions.
Currently, these metrics are not made available through standardized APIs or
interoperable channels. Making these measures accessible and computable
would support CMS objectives related to transparency, competition, and value-
based care.
b. What use cases are possible today?
Currently, the scheduling use-cases are available today, but their extent is limited to
systems that have the appropriate proprietary APIs.
c. What should be possible in the near future?
Currently CMS is aggregating additional data from EMRs for eCQMs for 2025/2026. We
could see CMS utilizing this data to create APIs for patient-facing quality metrics like
infection rates, provider communication, re-admission rates, etc.
d. What would be very valuable but may be very hard to achieve?
Cost estimate tools would be very valuable but potentially very hard to achieve.
Achieving this would require payers to release APIs allowing patient’s benefit details to
be exposed and provider organizations releasing price transparency APIs.
3. Information Blocking and Digital Identity
PC-13. How can CMS encourage patients and caregivers to submit information
blocking complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be
the impact? Would increasing reporting of complaints advance or negatively
impact data exchange?
One recommendation to increase participation for patients and caregivers to submit
information blocking requests is to provide an API for the Information Blocking Portal.
This way applications, EMRs, etc. can automatically submit a complaint containing the
details and metadata of their request over the network. Patient facing applications and

patient portals could natively embed a workflow that allows patients to submit a
complaint. Similarly, provider facing applications and EMRs could do the same.
However, without a nationwide campaign for proper education for patients and
providers, the portal could be overwhelmed by incorrect reports of information blocking,
which would make it more difficult to find legitimate instances of it.
PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)):
Patients generally do not have a single provider throughout their lifetime. Their
providers change as they go from pediatric providers to adult providers. In addition,
older patients with chronic conditions may go to specialists across many different areas.
Each of these providers will likely have a different patient portal. It’s tough for patients to
manage different credentials across organizations let alone aggregating them to a
single platform.
New technologies such as CLEAR, ID.me, etc. use a combination of identity cards and
biometric data (i.e. taking a selfie from your phone). These technologies can be used to
uniquely identify a patient. Patients can use them to validate their identity so they can
pull their medical records from the EMRs directly. We’ve seen athenahealth recently
implement the IAS use-case to use CLEAR to validate identity instead of remembering
patient portal credentials.
CMS could work with these identity providers to set frameworks for Medicare and
Medicaid patients to use their applications to manage their medical records. Providers
may need help from their EMR vendor to support IAS workflows that are powered by
digital identity credentials such as CLEAR, ID.me, etc. Once the vendors support this
flow, providers organizations would need to be educated on how to deploy this new
workflow with their patients.
One potential downside is that patient portals are often more than just viewers of a
patient’s historical record. Patients also use them to schedule appointments, message
their providers, or order refills. If IAS is implemented for reading data only, patients may
still need to maintain multiple logins for other functions. If IAS workflows can also use
FHIR resources for reading and writing back data, patient centric applications could
leverage those APIs to also schedule appointments, message providers, and order
prescription refills.
Another downside is that these workflows typically require smartphones or other
biometric devices. Patients who do not have access to them may be left out and still
need access to their patient portal credentials.

Balancing privacy with convenience to data is also key. CMS could have a tiered access
approach. Where non-sensitive data requires IAL-1 verification and sensitive data
requires IAL-2 data or higher.
C. Providers
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they
relate to use cases and workflows that involve providers. While we certainly want
providers to answer questions in this section (and in other sections) from the
provider point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide their viewpoints
on the provider workflows as appropriate.
ELLKAY is not a provider organization. However, ELLKAY provides applications to
provider organizations such as our LKOpera platform for interoperability and our
LKOasis platform for data management. ELLKAY also works with digital health
applications to integrate them with various clinical systems. Most digital health
applications we work with integrate directly with provider organizations.
1. Digital Health Apps
PR-1. What can CMS and its partners do to encourage providers, including those
in rural areas, to leverage approved (see description in PC-5) digital health
products for their patients?
<This is PC-5>
a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health
products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health
outcomes (not approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria
should be used if there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy
changes, or program design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption
of digital health products (for example, enhancements to data access,
reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary communications)?
One of the most common questions providers ask when adopting a new digital health
application is, “Does this integrate natively with my EMR?”. While some EMRs have
established certification programs to validate workflow integration, others are still
evolving in this area. CMS could play a key role by identifying high-impact use cases
such as AI-powered clinical documentation, patient scheduling and intake, and
population health management and defining the standard APIs and interfaces
necessary for seamless integration with EMRs. Building on this, CMS could establish a
separate certification process for digital health solutions to ensure they meet
interoperability standards and can integrate effectively within clinical workflows.

a. What are the current obstacles?
These tools require data outside the current implementation of USCDI on FHIR. Such
as writing back clinical data, retrieving open appointment slots, and writing back care
gaps.
The current obstacles in implementing innovative applications within workflows is that
the standards need to catch up to the applications. As a result, these applications end
up using some level of non-standard means such as RPA (robotic process automation)
or direct database integrations.
These obstacles could be mitigated by reviewing the data requirements these
innovative applications require and ensuring that certified systems are able to provide
the mechanisms for integration either HL7 or FHIR APIs.
b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital
products in the provision of their care?
N/A
c. What responsibilities do providers have when recommending use of a digital
product by a patient?
N/A
PR-2. What are obstacles that prevent development, deployment, or effective
utilization of the most useful and innovative applications for physician workflows,
such as quality measurement reporting, clinical documentation, and billing
tasks? How could these obstacles be mitigated?
In our experience with quality measures and billing integration, the data required is
fragmented in disparate systems. The breadth of data needed is also significant. Most
system implementations of FHIR lacks the data required for these use-cases. We’ve
seen applications integrate through custom methods or implement a complex
integration that’s a mix of FHIR, interfaces, and proprietary APIs that invariably drives
up the cost of the integration and maintenance.
PR-3. How important is it for healthcare delivery and interoperability in urban and
rural areas that all data in an EHR system be accessible for exchange, regardless
of storage format (for example, scanned documents, faxed records, lab results,
free text notes, structured data fields)? Please address all of the following:
a. Current challenges in accessing different data formats.
b. Impact on patient care quality.
c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility.

d. Cost or privacy implications of making all data formats interoperable.
e. Priority level compared to other interoperability needs.
With the advent of new AI and NLP applications in areas such as population health,
quality measures, and value based care, it is important to get both structured and
unstructured data. NLP and AI can now process, normalize, and glean insights from
unstructured data. The current challenge in getting structured data is that some systems
in rural areas particularly do not have robust FHIR APIs or API programs. In other
areas, a combination of HL7 and FHIR is needed to get a high-level of breadth and
depth of data.
Retrieving unstructured data is also challenging due to the size of the data. Encounter
notes, scanned documents, etc. can take weeks to months to process if pulled on a per-
patient basis through FHIR APIs that point to an EMR’s production instance. We’ve
found that working with a data repository that has this information is a lot more efficient.
Recently applications in the value based care space state that they depend on retrieving
unstructured data. A lot of the insights required to accurately determine patient care
gaps are in the provider’s notes or faxes received in the practice. Value based care
applications may not accurately determine patient care gaps if they do not get access to
this information.
The technical barriers for full data accessibility are tough to address. Healthcare data is
the fastest growing area of data, with growth accounting for 30% of all new data
generated. As new data sets become imperative to healthcare like genomic data, there
will always be a lag in EMRs developing new APIs or interfaces to access the data.
We’ve seen EMRs that provide a data warehouse or view of non-real time data as
having the best workaround to give applications access to data in the interim.
However, data warehouse access comes at an additional cost from health IT vendors.
This is a challenging problem to solve because providing full access might lead to data
privacy issues. We see a middle ground where provider organizations can approve
access to specific tables and data specifications to vendors.
Currently, we haven’t seen a solution to this problem prioritized compared to other
interoperability initiatives such as TEFCA, IAS, etc. However, we believe that it will
become more important given the number of value-based care solutions that require
unstructured data.
PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be needed
for patients' third-party digital products to have access to administrative
workflows, such as auto-populating intake forms, viewing provider information
and schedules, and making and modifying an appointment?

The implementation of FHIR and proprietary APIs varies greatly between EMRs. Some
have FHIR APIs that allow applications to pull schedules, open slots, and book/edit
appointments. Some have gone further and have discrete APIs that allow applications
to write back intake forms and clinical data.
A common complaint amongst patients is the need to fill out intake forms when they’ve
arrived for an appointment. We think patients will expect practices to allow them to fill
out the forms before they arrive electronically. This will allow providers more time to
review the forms or AI to review and flag anything out of the ordinary.
We believe that the scope of required FHIR APIs will have to expand to include
administrative functions such as auto-populating intake forms or reviewing provider
information/schedules across all EMRs.
2. Data Exchange
PR-5. Which of the following FHIR APIs and capabilities do you already support
or utilize in your provider organization's systems, directly or through an
intermediary? For each, describe the transaction model, use case, whether you
use individual queries or bulk transactions, and any constraints:
a. Patient Access API.
N/A for ELLKAY
b. Standardized API for Patient and Population Services.
ELLKAY supports population and patient-level data exchange via FHIR APIs and
intermediaries, using both individual and bulk queries depending on partner
capabilities.
c. Provider Directory API.
ELLKAY can integrate with external provider directories but does not host or
expose its own Provider Directory API.
d. Provider Access API.
ELLKAY supports provider access use cases through FHIR and HL7-based
integrations tailored to client workflows.
e. Payer-to-Payer API.
ELLKAY does not currently support Payer-to-Payer APIs.
f. Prior Authorization API.
ELLKAY has prioritized Prior Authorization APIs on its roadmap and is currently
assessing the requirements to support CRD, DTR, and PAS.

g. Bulk FHIR—Do you support Group ID-based access filtering for population-
specific queries?
ELLKAY has experience working with bulk data workflows and has implemented
FHIR Bulk Data access in specific projects, such as within the CMS DPC (Data
at the Point of Care) sandbox, where group-based filtering was tested. In
practice, ELLKAY often works with clients to replicate similar functionality using
proprietary APIs or batch file exchanges when native Bulk FHIR support isn’t
available or supported by the target EHR.
h. SMART on FHIR—Do you support both EHR-launched and standalone app
access? What does the process for application deployment entail?
ELLKAY supports standalone SMART on FHIR app launches and facilitates
EHR-embedded launches as well depending on the system and deployment
context. For standalone launches, we guide our clients through app registration,
redirection setup, and token exchange workflows to ensure secure and compliant
access to patient-level data. For EHR-launched workflows, we work closely with
provider organizations and EHR vendors to embed SMART apps within clinical
workflows where technically feasible. ELLKAY also assists with testing and
deployment support to streamline integration into production environments.
i. CDS Hooks (for clinical decision support integrations).
ELLKAY is currently working to improve its native CDS support, recognizing its
importance in enabling real-time context-aware clinical decision support. ELLKAY
would increase CDS Hooks adoption and scale support rapidly if implementation
were more consistent across all EHR vendors.
PR-6. Is TEFCA currently helping to advance provider access to health
information?
a. Please provide specific examples.
TEFCA has helped in making health care data exchange more efficient. Previously,
certain networks had a framework where you needed to query nodes within a certain
geographical area to find the patient and pull their chart. With TEFCA each QHIN has
their own record locator service (RLS) and enterprise master patient index (EMPI).
b. What changes would you suggest?
First, we need to incentivize systems for clinical covered entities (e.g. labs, imaging,
centers, payers) join TEFCA. This would allow patients to get a significant portion of
their longitudinal record in a seamless fashion.

Once data access is addressed, the next frontier is data usability. Currently, the data
across all the networks is only somewhat usable. One of the customers stated that they
typically receive 15,000 rows of data for a single patient when pulling data across the
network. They have had to build their own proprietary solution to deduplicate the data
since much of the data is the same across the network but formulated in different code
sets.
c. What other options are available outside of TEFCA?
There are currently no alternatives outside of TEFCA for unified federal data exchange.
Networks such as CommonWell, Carequality, and eHealthExchange currently
exchange, but TEFCA provides a federated decentralized data exchange model that
allows all these networks to exchange data with one another.
d. Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that could be
consolidated?
Once a majority of EMRs adopt FHIR APIs and the majority of data exchange across
the network is done through FHIR, CCDAs may be deemed redundant.
There is some overlap between HL7 v2 and FHIR in-terms of data exchanged.
However, HL7 v2 supports a push model and most systems do not have FHIR
notifications or subscription models enabled today. Also, HL7 v2 offers robust support
for on-premise hospitals and ambulatory systems such as automated prescription
dispensing systems, radiation oncology, and laboratory information systems. Until these
systems migrate to the cloud, we think it’s unlikely that they will move to FHIR
resources.
However, one area of HL7 use we could see being replaced are the vaccination
registries vaccination query interfaces. These interfaces generally require
communication over HTTPS and follow a query/response model. Having these
registries move to FHIR could be an area of optimization.
PR-7. What strategies can CMS implement to support providers in making high-
quality, timely, and comprehensive healthcare data available for interoperability
in the digital product ecosystem? How can the burden of increasing data
availability and sharing be mitigated for providers? Are there ways that workflows
or metrics that providers are already motivated to optimize for that could be
reused for, or combined with, efforts needed to support interoperability?

Currently, there are already programs and initiatives CMS has that requires providers to
submit data such as MIPS and eCQM reporting. Currently, providers and ACOs may
employ a third party data aggregator to use proprietary methods such as direct
database connectivity to get data on these quality measures before EMR vendors
release QRDAs that for that reporting period.
If CMS incentivizes providers and EMR vendors to send the data in FHIR resources or
provides measures that can be determined through FHIR resources, that could allow
EMR vendors to align development resources to expand out interoperability initiatives
and consolidate and simplify multiple methods of interoperability.
PR-8. What are ways CMS or partners can help with simplifying clinical quality
data responsibilities of providers?
CMS could align the clinical quality data submissions with the available and projected
FHIR resource development across systems. In addition, CMS could require
submissions through bulk FHIR.
a. What would be the benefits and downsides of using Bulk FHIR data exports
from EHRs to CMS to simplify clinical quality data submissions? Can CMS reduce
the burden on providers by performing quality metrics calculations leveraging
Bulk FHIR data exports?
• Benefits
o Allows EMR vendors to reduce the number of bulk data submissions and
formats they support.
o Incentivizes more EMRs to standardize on FHIR.
• Downsides
o Bulk FHIR capabilities need to be enhanced across more EMRs. Some
systems have limits of hundreds to thousands of patients for bulk FHIR
extractions.
o CMS may need to fund systems used in critical access facilities to support
bulk FHIR.
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of
providers be consolidated so investments can be dually purposed?
CMS could allow providers to submit reports through FHIR resources and align new
quality measures to be in-line with the data on the USCDI on FHIR roadmap. This would
also reduce the burden on EMR vendors.
c. Are there requirements CMS should consider for data registries to support
digital quality measurement in a more efficient manner? Are there requirements
CMS should consider for data registries that would support access to real-time

quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical care in addition to
simplifying reporting processes?
Examples of public data registries include syndromic registries, vaccination registries,
cancer registries, and lab reporting registries. These registries’ capabilities vary greatly
based on the state and funding.
Currently, these registries generally require HL7 v2 messages from EMRs to populate
their data repository. These registries could support patient and provider access FHIR
APIs to allow both patients and providers to access their longitudinal records.
These registries could also join TEFCA for data exchange across various covered
entities. A concern for these registries joining TEFCA is that there may be too much
duplicate data across the network. However, if the code sets are standardized, clinical
de-duplication could be used to make the data from these sources usable.
3. Digital Identity (Maybe we do something here?)
PR-9. How might CMS encourage providers to accept digital identity credentials
(for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead
of proprietary logins that need to be tracked for each provider relationship?
Patients generally do not have a single provider throughout their lifetime. Their
providers change as they go from pediatric providers to adult providers. In addition,
older patients with chronic conditions may go to specialists across many different areas.
Each of these providers will likely have a different patient portal. It’s tough for patients to
manage different credentials across each organization let alone aggregating them to a
single platform.
New technologies such as CLEAR, ID.me, etc. Use a combination of identity cards and
biometric data (i.e. taking a selfie from your phone). These technologies can be used to
uniquely identify a patient. Patients can use them to validate their identity so they can
pull their medical records from the EMRs directly. We’ve seen athenahealth recently
implement the IAS use-case to use CLEAR to validate identity instead of remembering
patient portal credentials.
CMS could work with these identity providers to set frameworks for Medicare and
Medicaid patients to use their applications to manage their medical records. Providers
may need help from their EMR vendor to support IAS workflows that are powered by
digital identity credentials such as CLEAR, ID.me, etc. Once the vendors support this
flow, providers organizations would need to be educated on how to deploy this new
workflow with their patients.

One potential downside is that patient portals are often more than just viewers of a
patient’s historical record. Patients also use them to schedule appointments, message
their providers, or order refills. If IAS is implemented for reading data only, patients may
still need to maintain multiple logins for other functions. If IAS workflows can also use
FHIR resources for reading and writing back data, patient centric applications could
leverage those APIs to also schedule appointments, message providers, and order
prescription refills.
Another downside is that these workflows typically require smartphones or other
biometric devices. Patients who do not have access to them may be left out and still
need access to their patient portal credentials.
Balancing privacy with convenience to data is also key. CMS could have a tiered access
approach. Where non-sensitive data requires IAL-1 verification and sensitive data
requires IAL-2 data or higher.
a. What would providers need help with to accelerate the transition to a single set
of trusted digital identity credentials for the patient to keep track of, instead of
one for each provider?
b. How might CMS balance patient privacy with convenience and access to digital
health products and services that may lead to significant improvements in
health?
PR-10. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov,
ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs):
a. What are the challenges and benefits for providers?
• Benefits
o This could potentially reduce the number requests for password resets
and health care records faxed to patients.
o Patients can aggregate their records and share them with their providers
more easily
o Framework allows for better auditing and authentication
• Challenges
o Ensuring these methods integrate all patient portal functions with EMRs at
scale
o Training providers and patients to use these methods
o Ensuring patients across rural and urban areas have devices that can
utilize digital identity credentials
b. How would requiring their use improve access to health information?

Currently health care data is disparate and scattered from a patient’s perspective.
Patients should at least be able to use these methods to locate where the clinical data
across provider EMRs, laboratories, and imaging centers. Then retrieve the data into a
single application for convenience.
c. What are the potential downsides?
Providers and patients will need to be educated on these workflows. Also, patients need
devices that support collecting biometric data.
d. What impact would mandatory credentials have on a nationwide provider
directory?
Having mandatory credentials will improve trust in nationwide data exchange since
providers are being authenticated. Currently, organizations have issues maintaining a
list of providers across their referring or ancillary providers patients may go to. This
could improve data flow across those providers for coordinated care.
e. How could digital identity implementation improve provider data flow?
Digital identity implementation could allow other use cases such as scheduling and
referrals to go through the networks and reduce the burden on the patient for follow-ups.
f. Would combining FHIR addresses and identity improve data flow?
Matching FHIR addresses to provider identity would make it easier for providers to
exchange data nationwide. This would allow providers to send the patient’s chart when
referring them or pull their chart notes from other encounters in a standards-based trust
network. FHIR also allows providers to easily control what specific data should be sent
across the network as opposed to the current framework of sending a CCDA.
PR-11. How could members of trust communities [3] (for example, QHINs,
participants and sub-participants in TEFCA, which requires Identity Assurance
Level 2 (IAL2) via Credential Service Providers (CSPs)) better support the goals of
reduced provider and patient burden while also enhancing identity management
and security?
At least 60% of hospitals are planning to or are part of a QHIN that’s part of TEFCA.
QHIN’s such as CommonWell have 260M+ patients on its network. TEFCA is positioned
to enable a majority of the patients in the US to get more convenient access to their
data via IAL2 verification via CSPs. This reduces the burden on them to maintain
multiple credentials. Similarly, provider organizations may be less burden by password
resets or requests for records by patients.
4. Information Blocking

PR-12. Should ASTP/ONC consider removing or revising any of the information
blocking exceptions or conditions within the exceptions (45 CFR part 171,
subparts B through D) to further the access, exchange, and use of electronic
health information (EHI) and to promote market competition?
The goal of information blocking should be to ensure that critical patient data can be
transmitted to external organizations, applications, systems, etc. that require it. Health
IT vendors should compete on functionality and value rather than interoperability and
data access.
Some recommendations to revise the Information Section are:
- The security language could be tightened to reflect standards such as HITRUST
certifications.
- If the infeasibility exception is invoked, health IT vendors should submit the
reason to ONC as well as the parties involved. This way ONC can track this
exception and it can influence strategy around USCDI resource expansion.
PR-13. For any category of healthcare provider (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300jj(3)),
without a current information blocking disincentive established by CMS, what
would be the most effective disincentive for that category of provider?
We have seen provider organizations such as MSOs respond to the potential fines in
reimbursement for failing to report data on new eCQMs. A similar methodology could
work where provider organizations that engage in information blocking for specific use-
cases could be fined.
PR-14. How can CMS encourage providers to submit information blocking
complaints to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the
impact? Would it advance or negatively impact data exchange?
CMS can play a key role in encouraging payers to report instances of information
blocking by making the process clearer, more accessible, and better supported. Many
payers encounter challenges—such as providers or vendors refusing to share data—but
may hesitate to report due to uncertainty or concerns about repercussions. CMS can
address this by promoting the ONC’s Information Blocking Portal, providing clear
guidance on what qualifies as information blocking and ensuring that all submissions
are treated confidentially. While there may be concerns about impacting payer-provider
relationships, encouraging constructive reporting can help improve transparency and
lead to more open and consistent data sharing.
D. Payers

PA-1. What policy or technical limitations do you see in TEFCA? What changes
would you suggest to address those limitations? To what degree do you expect
these limitations to hinder participation in TEFCA?
As the technical service provider for CommonWell, ELLKAY has received multiple
requests from payers to join the network. Payers primarily fall under the Health Care
Operations data exchange use case to support HEDIS/Quality, Risk Adjustment,
Utilization etc. Since Health Care Operations does not require a response from the
network, we have seen very low response rates for this use case with CommonWell and
are not able to recommend it to payers as a primary source of data. Payers instead
utilize alternative solutions like ELLKAY to establish point-to-point connections at the
provider and/or EHR level.
We recommend CMS encourage more engagement and participation from provider
organizations for Health Care Operations use cases. Being able to receive the data
through a network would allow payers to quickly scale their access to providers to
retrieve member information. Additionally, providers would not have to work individually
with their contracted payers to set up separate access points outside of the network.
PA-2. How can CMS encourage payers to accelerate the implementation and
utilization of APIs for patients, providers, and other payers, similar to the Blue
Button 2.0 and Data at the Point of Care APIs released by CMS?
As a leading healthcare data integration partner, ELLKAY believes CMS can play a
critical role in accelerating API adoption by payers through a strategic mix of regulation,
incentives, and support. Building on initiatives like Blue Button 2.0 and Data at the Point
of Care, CMS can drive progress by enforcing FHIR-based API standards with clear
mandates and accountability measures. At the same time, offering financial incentives,
such as enhanced payments or grant programs, will encourage early adoption. To
reduce implementation complexity, especially for smaller payers, CMS can provide
technical resources. CMS can also drive progress through public dashboards,
education, and partnerships with industry groups to align on use cases like prior
authorization, HEDIS/Quality, and care coordination, ensuring the APIs deliver real
world value to payers.
PA-3. How can CMS encourage payers to accept digital identity credentials (for
example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov) from patients and their partners instead of
proprietary logins?
Similar to increasing API adoption, CMS can also offer implementation support, shared
technical infrastructure, and financial incentives to ease the transition to digital identity
credentials. Raising patient awareness can further boost adoption.

PA-4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide provider directory that
included FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials?
Currently, some EMRs have published FHIR endpoints for their customers. However,
it’s difficult to know all the organizations a patient has had care at, especially if the
organization is a child organization at a larger parent organization. CMS should provide
a directory that allows patients, providers, and payers to determine the FHIR endpoint
for each distinct provider care organization.
PA-5. What are ways payers can help with simplifying clinical quality data
responsibilities of providers?
Through ELLKAY’s work with payers to support HEDIS and quality initiatives, we have
found that there is a huge administrative burden on provider HIM teams to fulfill these
types of ROI requests. The use of provider-driven upload, email, fax, and mail is still
prevalent in ROI workflows. ELLKAY’s Payer Platform provides a direct connection into
a provider’s EHR to automatically query and retrieve member information without any
manual intervention from the provider’s HIM team. We performed a case study with a
health system where ELLKAY was able to automate 95% of their manual releases to a
health plan. Prior to using ELLKAY, they spent 12 – 20 minutes on average to fulfill a
single ROI request, which adds up to over 2,600 hours to complete 10,000 requests.
Investing in automated ROI workflows is not only a significant time savings for
providers, but it also allows payers to receive member information much more quickly.
a. How interested are payers and providers in EHR technology advances that
enable bulk extraction of clinical quality data from EHRs to payers to allow them
to do the calculations instead of the provider-side technology?
Payers have their own processes and third-party vendors in place to do quality and risk
adjustment calculations on their side. For providers and payers engaged in VBC
contracts, providers are typically obligated to share their EHR data so that payers can
evaluate the quality of care their members are receiving. Providers can fulfill this
requirement by manually going into the EHR and exporting the clinical information that
is requested by payers. However, this is very time-consuming for the provider HIM
team, and there’s often long turnaround times for the payer to receive the data. ELLKAY
is seeing more payers transition to using automated workflows and direct EHR
connections. Therefore, it’s important that EHRs are able to support bulk extractions not
just for payers to receive data but also to minimize manual intervention from a provider’s
HIM team.
b. In what ways can the interoperability and quality reporting responsibilities of
providers to both CMS and other payers be consolidated so investments can be
dually purposed? Are there technologies payers might leverage that would

support access to real time quality data for healthcare providers to inform clinical
care in addition to simplifying reporting processes?
Increasing payer participation in QHINs and allowing CMS to receive data through
QHINs under TEFCA can help providers consolidate reporting responsibilities. Many
providers use third-parties and/or establish individual direct connections to share their
clinical data to CMS and each of their contracted payers, but there is a lot of overhead
in maintaining those channels. With QHINs, the infrastructure is already set up to
support data exchange so providers can share their data with the appropriate parties
through the QHIN rather than maintaining external access points.
ELLKAY’s Payer Platform does support the retrieval of near-real time clinical data for
payers and providers. In addition to being a CommonWell Service Adopter, ELLKAY
establishes direct EHR connections to allow payers to query and receive patient data.
Additionally, we support delivering HL7 feeds (ADT, SIU, ORU, etc.) from providers to
payers for real-time event notifications.
PA-7. How can CMS encourage payers to submit information blocking complaints
to ASTP/ONC's Information Blocking Portal? What would be the impact? Would it
advance or negatively impact data exchange?
CMS can play a key role in encouraging payers to report instances of information
blocking by making the process clearer, more accessible, and better supported. Many
payers encounter challenges—such as providers or vendors refusing to share data—but
may hesitate to report due to uncertainty or concerns about repercussions. CMS can
address this by promoting the ONC’s Information Blocking Portal, providing clear
guidance on what qualifies as information blocking and ensuring that all submissions
are treated confidentially. While there may be concerns about impacting payer-provider
relationships, encouraging constructive reporting can help improve transparency and
lead to more open and consistent data sharing.
E. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they
relate to use cases and workflows that involve technology vendors, data
providers, and networks. While we certainly want technology vendors, data
providers, and networks to answer questions in this section (and in other
sections) from their point of view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide their
viewpoints on the technology vendor, data provider, and network use cases as
appropriate.
1. Ecosystem

TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare
beneficiaries and caregivers?
In the short term, CMS can expand upon the access and documentation of its APIs,
particularly around Blue Button 2.0 and Data at the Point of Care (DPC). Resuming
onboarding and access to DPC will be critical to unlocking a new set of developers
interested in building and validating CMS solutions. Supporting this with robust
developer support, technical sandboxes, sample datasets, and open source APIs would
further reduce barriers to entry. Additionally, CMS can introduce innovation grants and
targeted pilot programs to promote development of digital health tools designed
specifically for Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers.
In the longer term, CMS could advance policies that mandate or incentivize the
consistent adoption of FHIR and USCDI+ standards across Medicare. This would
reduce inconsistent interoperability and create a more predictable development
environment. Another wish that would stimulate developer interest is enabling controlled
writeback capabilities. If third party applications are given bidirectional capabilities, they
could contribute meaningful updates and documentation into CMS connected systems.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS
APIs?
Some additional data that would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs
include real-time or near real-time claims data with detailed service line information,
prior authorization status and historical context, and social determinants of health
(SDOH) indicators.
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the
Blue Button 2.0 API?
The most valuable data sources alongside Blue Button 2.0 include clinical data from
EHRs, particularly structured data elements such as labs, medications, vitals, imaging
results, and encounter documentation. Additionally, payer data from Medicare
Advantage plans would be valuable to provide a more complete view of patient
utilization and care. Other valuable sources include patient-reported outcomes and data
from health information exchanges (HIEs) that capture care transitions and activities
occurring outside of CMS’s direct view. When integrated effectively, these
complementary data sources would enable users to deliver more holistic and patient-
centric solutions.
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?

Several barriers prevent developer access to these important data sources today. A
primary challenge is the lack of consistent FHIR API adoption and standardization
across the healthcare ecosystem, which leads to inconsistencies in data availability and
response behavior. Another obstacle is the persistent difficulties in patient matching due
to the absence of a universal patient identifier.
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program
policies to unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
CMS already has a well-structured API in Data at the Point of Care (DPC). Rather than
focusing solely on the development of new APIs, CMS could prioritize expanding
access to DPC. From the description, it seems that DPC would provide valuable claims-
based data, representing a critical opportunity to support population health use cases,
care management, and provider workflows.
2. Digital Identity
TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
a. What are the challenges and benefits?
Benefits of digital identity include improving data security, enabling stronger access
control, enhancing interoperability, and improving the accuracy of patient matching,
which remains a significant issue across systems. It also lays the groundwork for
scalable, secure user access, reducing the risk of fraud and unauthorized disclosure
while enabling consistent experiences across different applications. One challenge that
may come about is getting older patients to adapt to a new identity system may take
some getting used to for them. Additionally, not all patients have the resources to create
a digital identity.
b. How would requiring digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR,
Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) impact cybersecurity and
data exchange?
Requiring digital identity credentials from certified credential service providers would
strengthen cybersecurity by ensuring consistent identity verification processes across
the health IT ecosystem. This would reduce the risk of unauthorized access and
fraudulent use of patient data while also streamlining HIPAA compliance. Authentication
would be simplified, making data exchange secure and scalable.
c. What impact would mandatory use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol
have?
Mandating the use of the OpenID Connect identity protocol would have a positive
impact on interoperability, developer experience, and security. As a well-established,

standards-based framework, OpenID Connect simplifies the process of integrating
authentication and identity verification across platforms. This would reduce integration
costs for developers and minimize vendor lock-in, while also improving patient
experience through consistent authentication workflows.
3. Technical Standards and Certification
TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly
available APIs over proprietary APIs?
Currently, systems have implemented FHIR APIs for reading USCDI on FHIR v2,
precisely centered around retrieving specific data. APIs that involve writing back data or
reading objects such as appointments, financial, or administrative data are proprietary.
In addition, systems currently have a mix of HL7, FHIR, and flat files integrations to
solve their entire use-case. They need HL7 feeds like ADT to get a list of patients and
frequent updates. These functions could be transferred to an API. CMS should expand
the scope of certified APIs to cover non-clinical data such as administrative and claims.
In addition, include FHIR subscriptions so systems can simplify their integrations to
FHIR only instead of HL7 and FHIR.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve
access to health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should
publish such a directory, and should users bear a cost?
Currently, some EMRs have published FHIR endpoints for their customers, but for the
average patient, it’s tough to know what organizations you have had care at, especially,
if the organization is a child organization at a larger parent organization. CMS should
provide a directory that allows patients, providers, and payers to determine the FHIR
endpoint for each distinct provider care organization.
TD-6. What unique interoperability functions does TEFCA perform?
• What existing alternatives should be considered?
There are currently no alternatives outside of TEFCA for unified federal data
exchange. Networks such as CommonWell, Carequality, and eHealthExchange
currently exchange, but TEFCA provides a federated decentralized data
exchange model that allows all these networks to exchange data with one
another.
• Are there redundant standards, protocols or channels or both that should
be consolidated?

Currently, applications and provider organizations integrate through a mix of
FHIR, HL7, and CCDAs. Replacing CCDAs with FHIR could be a quick win for
CMS. FHIR allows systems to selectively choose the health resource they want
to query for. For example, when you get a CCDA, you typically receive all
encounter notes, documents, PAMI data, lab results etc. With FHIR, applications
and organizations can selectively get the data they need. For example, specialty
pharmacy systems that interchange data on the networks typically only get the
medication history and diagnoses on the patients that are referred to their
system.
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and
what are its limitations?
USCDI has made it easier to retrieve clinical data on demand at a per patient level and
provide richer context. USCDI is continuously evolving by releasing new versions which
expand out the data scope.
Two areas of scope we see it expanding out into are the following:
• SDOH: We are seeing that there is an increase in care coordination and patient
engagement applications that help vulnerable populations. Retrieving SDOH data
from the EMR could help these developers who are working with these
populations identify effective care paths for these populations.
• Genomics and Oncology Data: We’ve seen an increase in applications that
predict a patient’s prognosis require a M-Code profile on the patient. The M-Code
profile contains the patient’s genomic data, health assessment, disease
progression, treatment groups, and outcome groups. Currently, genomic data is
new and not represented in the USCDI profile. Including it would allow these
applications to pull data from EMRs, labs, etc.
a. Does it contain the full extent of data elements you need?
USCDI is generally comprehensive from a clinical data perspective. See above answer
for additional scope it could include.
With regards to payers, USCDI lacks key components needed for administrative and
financial operations, namely claims data and structured encounter billing codes (CPT,
HCPCS, etc.). While billing codes are not explicitly included in USCDI, these are often
integrated into the EHR and are able to be retrieved for data exchange purposes.

b. If not, is it because of limitations in the definition of the USCDI format or the
way it is utilized?
USCDI is a constantly evolving data set that changes as new applications or new use-
cases are identified by innovators. The limitations identified above are due to the data
scope in nature and not the data format or structure.
c. If so, would adding more data elements to USCDI add value or create scoping
challenges? How could such challenges be addressed?
Adding more USCDI data points would add more value if scoped consistently across
EMRs and specialty systems. One challenge is properly incentivizing EMRs and
specialty systems to develop APIs for these use-cases. Adding more data points for
complex resources could take away critical resources EMR vendors have from focusing
on their core product, which could affect provider and patient experiences.
If more data elements are added, there needs to be confidence that they benefit both
patients and providers alike by enabling more innovative solutions.
d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary
but less structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires
more processing by the receiver?
We see a demand for getting unstructured data such as documents, encounter notes,
etc. to run them through LLMs for insights.
TD-8. What are the most effective certification criteria and standards under the
ONC Health IT Certification Program?
The most effective certification criteria and standards under the ONC Health IT
Certification Program are those that promote the standards such as FHIR APIs, HL7,
and even CCDAs. We’ve seen these standards used more to promote interoperability
than EHI Exports that allow vendors to define their own format for exporting EMR data.
TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT:
a. What are the benefits of redefining certification to prioritize API-enabled
capabilities over software functionality?
We do not think you can prioritize one over the other. However, if you do, then there will
be more incentives and scalable use-cases that open up for third-party application
developers.
b. What would be the drawbacks?

EMRs may not prioritize core capabilities and the provider and patient experience may
degrade. There will be less incentives to expand out EMR functionality compared to
expanding out the functionality through third party applications.
c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certification criteria to require APIs to
consistently support exchanging data from all aspects of the patient's chart (for
example, faxed records, free text, discrete data)?
There are a few aspects at play here. First, health systems and provider organizations
may not store documents in their EMR. These documents could be stored in an external
document management systems (DMS). CMS would need these systems to provide
FHIR APIs and an application marketplace infrastructure to retrieve these documents
for these use-cases.
Second, CMS could define more APIs for unstructured objects such as encounter notes,
faxes, scanned documents, lab documents, etc.
d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond
to API-based data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
CMS would need to balance providers responding to critical requests for data necessary
for treatment purposes and also them protecting the patient’s best interests to these
requests. Like other reporting submissions, CMS could require submissions based on
how responsive providers are to treatment based queries.
In addition, CMS could tier the type of response based on if the query is for treatment,
individual access, etc.
e. How could EHRs capable of bulk data transfer be used to reduce the burden on
providers for reporting quality performance data to CMS? What capabilities are
needed to show benefit? What concerns are there with this approach?
EHRs could coordinate their release and scope of FHIR APIs to the quality measures
CMS releases as part of their eCQM program.
One gap we’ve identified is that one of the quality measures “Diabetic Retinopathy:
Communication with the Physician Managing Ongoing Diabetes Care” requires data
showing the provider patient communication presumably in the forms of letters.
However, the patient and provider could have communicated via patient portal
messages. If they did, not all EHR systems support APIs or bulk data transfer methods
that include these data points.
TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification
Program, what further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implement the 21st
Century Cures Act's API condition of certification (42 U.S.C. 300jj-11(c)(5)(D)(iv))

that requires a developer's APIs to allow health information to be accessed,
exchanged, and used without special effort, including providing access to all data
elements of a patient's electronic health record to the extent permissible under
applicable privacy laws?
ELLKAY supports the intent behind the 21st Century Cures Act and recognizes the
progress made in enabling access to health information through certified APIs. There is
still an opportunity to make these APIs more consistent and practical for broad, real-
world implementation. A meaningful next step ASTP/ONC could take is to establish
clearer guidelines and enforcement on what qualifies as without special effort. While
many APIs provide access to USCDI data elements, the experience of accessing full
patient records can vary across systems and vendors.
TD-11. As of January 1, 2024, many health IT developers with products certified
through the ONC Health IT Certification Program are required to include the
capability to perform an electronic health information export or “EHI export” for a
single patient as well as for patient populations (45 CFR 170.315(b)(10)). Such
health IT developers are also required to publicly describe the format of the EHI
export. Notably, how EHI export was accomplished was left entirely to the health
IT developer. Now that this capability has been in production for over a year, CMS
and ASTP/ONC seek input on the following:
a. Should this capability be revised to specify standardized API requirements for
EHI export?
This capability could be incorporated into bulk FHIR if there are additional FHIR
resources for unstructured data. This would reduce burden on the EMR vendor to
create a significant number of discrete FHIR resources to ensure that bulk FHIR is at
parity with the EHI export.
b. Are there specific workflow aspects that could be improved?
In most systems, the definition of the patient population is done through manual
configuration within the system and sometimes through the IT team or vendor. This
adds a significant amount of time.
Allowing the application to send their definition or patient roster through an API could
automate the process. Allowing the provider organization to review the definition of the
population via a dashboard would ensure that transparency is maintained throughout
the process.
c. Should CMS consider policy changes to support this capability's use?
CMS should consider policy changes because currently there are multiple methods of
submitting data to CMS, registries, population health applications, etc. today. This could

be an opportunity for CMS to standardize the mechanism which would simplify the
process for EMRs and developers.
4. Data Exchange
ELLKAY is the technical service provider of CommonWell and has helped CommonWell
achieve QHIN status. CommonWell to date has data of over 260M+ patients across
33,000+ facilities. These patients include both Medicare and Medicaid patients.
Currently, the method of data exchange is done through documents. We see the future
of the network using discrete FHIR APIs that allow a more targeted approach to getting
discrete patient.
TD-12. Should CMS endorse non-CMS data sources and networks, and if so, what
criteria or metrics should CMS consider?
CMS should endorse non-CMS data sources that are on networks such as TEFCA.
CMS should use metrics such as standards adherence, general data completeness and
quality, reliability, and latency when querying the data. CMS should also review the
workflow of the data source and network to determine if the patient matching strategy is
tight.
TD-13. What new opportunities and advancements could emerge with APIs
providing access to the entirety of a patient's electronic health information (EHI)?
a. What are the primary obstacles to this?
b. What are the primary tradeoffs between USCDI and full EHI, especially given
more flexible data processing capabilities today?
Applications that would benefit from getting access to the entirety of the patient’s record
are in the AI/NLP space that can parse unstructured data on patients and pull insights.
Some challenges that prevent a full API model are:
• Breadth and Depth of EMR data: The standards can only move so quickly to
capture the ever growing healthcare data set.
• Data Access Fees: API access that charge per query impact the financial viability
of deploying these solutions.
• Accessing unstructured data from systems takes a significant amount of time
even through APIs. We’ve seen faster ingestions times where we integrate with
systems that provide access to a data warehouse or non-production environment
that hosts the data.
Historically, the challenge with processing EHI data is that it’s richer and not standard
across disparate systems and requires normalization, deduplication, etc. and manual
abstraction in some cases. However, technology has provided tools to parse data

through NLP and other AI techniques. CMS should seek to implement a balanced
approach where we do not lose access to EHI export data in favor of APIs only. A
middle ground would be to require creating an API that allows an export of data.
TD-14. Regarding networks' use of FHIR APIs:
a. How many endpoints is your network connected to for patient data sharing?
What types, categories, geographies of endpoints do you cover? Are they
searchable by National Provider Identifier (NPI) or organizational ID?
b. b. How are these connections established (for example, FHIR (g)(10)
endpoints, TEFCA/Integrating the Health Enterprise (IHE) XCA, or proprietary
APIs)?
c. c. Do you interconnect with other networks? Under what frameworks (for
example, TEFCA, private agreements)
ELLKAY has several platforms that offer widespread connectivity. Some examples are:
• CommonWell Health Alliance: Contains over 260M+ patients and over 33,000+
data sources across the US. They are searchable by organizational ID.
• Point-to-point integrations: ELLKAY has over 60,000 interfaces across the
country with various organizations. We have information on the organizations we
work with.
These connections are a mix of FHIR, XCA, proprietary APIs, and HL7. For example,
CommonWell’s data exchange is a mix of XCA and FHIR. Our point-to-point
integrations are mainly HL7 for lab, transcription, and other use cases. Our FHIR
connectivity is mainly used to integrate digital health applications and payers.
Other networks we interconnect with are TEFCA and Carequality. ELLKAY also has a
proprietary lab network that serves half of the nation’s orders and results.
TD-15. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs:
Not every use case requires real-time data exchange, specifically within population
health. Currently, most systems do not have a method to define a list of patients that
applications have an interest to pull. Bulk FHIR allows applications to define a list of
patients and periodically pull their data. The cadence can be set up during off-hours to
not interfere with the production database processes.
a. How would increased use of bulk FHIR improve use cases and data flow?
Increased bulk FHIR would help with quality measures and population health use cases.
Some of these applications rely on custom integrations such direct integrations with
databases or some sort of custom data warehouse. Promoting bulk FHIR across EMRs
would allow these use-cases to be integrated in a standard approach.

b. What are the potential disadvantages of their use?
The current issue with bulk FHIR implementations is that some systems limit the
number of patients in the hundreds to thousands per pull. This makes the method
unusable for applications that need to pull more patients. At that point, it’s easier to call
the real-time FHIR APIs for the data or get the data from EHI exports or a custom
integration.
TD-16. What are the tradeoffs of maintaining point-to-point models vs. shared
network infrastructure?
a. Do current rules encourage scalable network participation?
b. What changes would improve alignment (for example, API unification,
reciprocal access)?
Currently, the shared network infrastructure supports mainly chart retrieval. Some
networks support event notification services, but it’s mainly centered around chart
retrieval. Point-to-point models have been deployed for other important functions such
as referrals, lab results, and appointment scheduling. Moving these functions to a
shared network infrastructure would reduce a lot of the duplicative work that happens at
scale.
Current rules do not encourage scalable network participation. For example, since
TEFCA is voluntary, specialty and smaller vendors may not have the incentives to join
the network. The data they produce on patients is valuable. Our experience working
with ACOs has shown us the importance of retrieving data from smaller specialty
systems to get a clearer picture of the patient’s care gaps.
Systems are already investing in FHIR R4 APIs to comply with CMS information
blocking. Allowing them to re-use that work on TEFCA could improve alignment.
TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have
in ensuring viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough
supply and demand, that results in usage and outcomes?
CMS should set the standards and requirements for healthcare data sharing. In
addition, CMS and ONC could fund the onboarding and infrastructure development for
smaller EMRs, providers in rural or safety net areas, to join the network.
In addition, CMS should look more broadly and include other covered entities in national
data exchange such as labs and pharmacies. ELLKAY is already helping labs join the
CommonWell network to reduce friction in providers getting access to the patients’
complete lab results and labs get access to pedigree information and other clinical
information necessary to provide high quality reports.

5. Compliance
TD-18. Information blocking:
a. Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for the types of practices
you have experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please include
both situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a
failure or unusable response?
We’ve seen information blocking where health IT vendors may charge for standard
FHIR APIs or take significant time to respond to bugs or issues with their
implementation of FHIR. We’ve also experienced difficulty in getting FHIR API access
for organizations that are under a larger parent organization because their requests are
not a priority for the IT team.
CMS could implement policies where health IT vendors would have to publicly publish
their prices for standard interoperability methods under ONC certification such as FHIR
APIs, HL7 interfaces for common use cases (i.e. orders, results, appointments) for
reading and writing data.
b. What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS implement to further
discourage healthcare providers from engaging in information blocking
practices?
CMS could require providers to send reports on their API response times as well as
availability. Providers that do not meet certain benchmarks will be penalized.
In addition, if providers are using the infeasible exception for information blocking, they
would be required to send their rationale to CMS as well as the affected party. This
could dissuade organizations from using it erroneously.
c. Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition
of information blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act
(PHSA) that lack information blocking disincentives?
Currently the priority needs to be on enforcement of current information blocking before
considering additional actors.
TD-19. Regarding price transparency implementation:
a. What are current shortcomings in content, format, delivery, and timeliness?
Right now, the information to implement price transparency is scattered between
providers and payers in different systems within these organizations. Data on the

patient benefits and pricing information needs to be available through a standard
mechanism to implement price transparency at scale.
b. Which workflows would benefit most from functional price transparency?
- Real-time cost estimates during a patient provider encounter (similar to the real-
time prescription benefits available during ePrescribing workflows)
- Prior Authorization: Could streamline the process by allowing providers to check
eligibility and obtain authorizations sooner.
- Patient Engagement: Allows patients to compare pricing options across different
providers.
c. What improvements would be most valuable for patients, providers, or payers,
including CMS?
- Patients: Understanding the out-of-pocket costs can assist in decision making
and engagement.
- Providers: Allows providers to streamline the prior authorization process and
submit requests faster.
- Payers: Members making better cost effective decisions could lower spend.
- CMS: Can better adopt value-based care models that reward quality and
efficacy.
F. Value-Based Care Organizations
This section is intended for all stakeholders to provide input on questions as they
relate to use cases and workflows that involve value-based care organizations.
While we certainly want value-based care organizations to answer questions in
this section (and in other sections) from the value-based care provider point of
view, we also invite all stakeholders to provide their viewpoints on the value-
based care workflows as appropriate.
ELLKAY has worked with and integrated value-based care applications to systems at
scale. The perspective ELLKAY will provide will be with that focus in mind. Currently,
the general structure to integrate these applications is as follows:
• Pull historical discrete and non-discrete data across clinical and financial data
from the EMR to identify care gaps
• As new patients and encounters occur, ELLKAY sends the data to the digital
health application.
• Care gaps and suspected diagnoses are written back to the EMR.

Some systems have methods that support the end-to-end workflow. Such as bulk
exports, interfaces for updated data, FHIR APIs for reading, and proprietary APIs for
writing back data. Others do not have many methods. The current challenges we’ve
seen in implementing value-based care workflows across thousands of integrations are
as follows:
• Difficult to access claims data from the EMR because it’s not mandated through
USCDI on FHIR v2
• Pulling unstructured data is costly and time-consuming due to the volume of data
• Few systems have the capability to write a suspected diagnosis
Diving in deeper to the last point on writing back suspected diagnosis, CDS Hooks
support sending recommendations to the EMRs across diagnosis, medications, and
labs, yet not all EMRs have implemented robust CDS Hooks. Furthermore, some
systems don’t have concepts of suspected diagnoses. Therefore, ELLKAY must send
data via documents, in the appointment note sections, or other methods that may not
get the provider’s attention to act upon the information.
1. Digital Health Adoption
VB-1. What incentives could encourage APMs such as accountable care
organizations (ACOs) or participants in Medicare Shared Savings Program
(MSSP) to leverage digital health management and care navigation products more
often and more effectively with their patients? What are the current obstacles
preventing broader digital product adoption for patients in ACOs?
Digital tools can be a powerful lever for ACOs to improve care coordination and reduce
avoidable costs. However, many ACOs still face barriers due to funding gaps and data
silos. CMS can play an integral role by offering targeted incentives and funding to
accelerate digital adoption. For example, CMS could offer additional shared savings or
performance-based bonuses tied specifically to metrics around digital tool usage.
Another option could be rewarding ACOs that demonstrate improved clinical outcomes
linked to digital interventions.
VB-2. How can key themes and technologies such as artificial intelligence,
population health analytics, risk stratification, care coordination, usability, quality
measurement, and patient engagement be better integrated into APM
requirements?
By aligning incentives and standards around key themes such as AI, population health,
risk stratification, care coordination, etc., CMS can help APM participants deliver

smarter, patient-centric care. Financial incentives can motivate providers to innovate,
while interoperability, usability, and quality standards ensure that these technologies
deliver real value without adding complexity. Ultimately, better integration of these
capabilities will accelerate value-based care and improve health for the populations
served.
VB-3. What are essential health IT capabilities for value-based care
arrangements?
a. Examples (not comprehensive) may include: care planning, patient event
notification, data extraction/normalization, quality performance measurement,
access to claims data, attribution and patient ID matching, remote device
interoperability, or other patient empowerment tools.
b. What other health IT capabilities have proven valuable to succeeding in value-
based care arrangements?
• Support for interoperability standards (e.g., HL7 FHIR) for seamless data
exchange
• Population health analytics and predictive risk stratification
• Clinical decision support embedded in workflows
• Telehealth and virtual care platforms
• Automated care gap identification and outreach
VB-4. What are the essential data types needed for successful participation in
value-based care arrangements?
The following data elements are essential because they evaluate for high quality, low
cost care while supporting effective patient-centric treatment.
• Clinical data
• Claims data
• Patient demographics
• Social determinants of health
• Patient Reported Outcomes
• Care Coordination Data (i.e. referrals)
2. Compliance and Certification

VB-5. In your experience, how do current certification criteria and standards
incorporated into the ONC Health IT Certification Program support value-based
care delivery?
The general workflow we’ve seen in value-based care delivery involves the following
data exchange needs:
- Retrieving clinical and financial data for the patient population
- Finding recommendations or suspected diagnosis from the data
- Writing back that information before the patient’s next appointment
- Receiving updates on the patient’s health and status
Currently, the standards only cover retrieving clinical data well. The other parts of the
workflow require custom or proprietary integrations per system. Expanding the
certification criteria to include financial, administrative data, and CDS hooks could better
support value-based care delivery.
In addition, adding ADT event notifications to TEFCA would allow organizations to pull
the patients chart for updates when they receive care. Instead of setting up point-to-
point integrations.
VB-6. What specific health information technology capabilities that could benefit
APMs are not currently addressed by existing certification criteria and standards
that should be included under the ONC Health IT Certification Program?
Some specific health information technology capabilities that could benefit APMs that
are not currently addressed include standardized writeback mechanisms (i.e. sending
care gaps, diagnosis suggestions, etc.), structured access to financial data, and
dependable support for event-driven workflows like CDS. Support for bulk data writes,
identity resolution across systems, and streamlined access to payer data are also
pieces that would help to better support population-level initiatives.
VB-7. How can technology requirements for APMs, established through CEHRT or
other pathways, reduce complexity while preserving necessary flexibility?
Certification requirements for APMs can reduce complexity by clearly defining modular,
plug-and-play standards for common workflows while allowing flexibility in how
organizations implement them based on their scale and tech maturity. Defining
standards at the data and transaction level, rather than prescribing specific
technologies, can preserve innovation while improving interoperability.
However, making specific technologies a hard requirement without offering alternative
compliance pathways can discourage participation from providers using older or less
modern systems. These legacy platforms may not have the resources or vendor support

to adopt new standards quickly, creating barriers to entry for otherwise willing APM
participants. A more effective approach is to incentivize adoption while allowing for
phased or proxy-based compliance, such as leveraging intermediaries or certified third-
party services to bridge the gap.
VB-8. How can other HHS policies supplement CEHRT requirements to better
optimize the use of digital health products in APMs? As an example,
requirements under the Conditions of Participation for hospitals (42 CFR
482.24(d)) require hospitals to transmit electronic patient event notifications to
community providers. What barriers are in place preventing APM participants
from receiving the same notifications?
HHS could supplement CEHRT requirements by aligning the CMS Conditions of
Participation (CoPs) with APM needs for example, requiring standardized event
notifications (like ADT alerts) to be sent to APM participants, not just community
providers. Barriers include inconsistent implementation across EHRs, lack of patient-
provider attribution standards, and an absence of a centralized trust framework for
distributing alerts. Expanding TEFCA participation and enforcing support for ADT under
CoPs would address many of these gaps.
VB-9. What technology requirements should be different for APM organizations
when comparing to non-APM organizations (for example, quality reporting, and
interoperability)?
APM organizations operate under fundamentally different incentives than traditional fee-
for-service models, so their technology requirements should be tailored to support
proactive, coordinated, and outcomes-focused care. Unlike non-APM organizations,
APMs need consistent access to real-time or near-real-time patient data across care
settings in order to track patient progress, monitor risk, and intervene earlier.
Interoperability standards that enable access to longitudinal patient records, including
both historical and forward-looking data, should be emphasized.
Additionally, APMs benefit from bi-directional data exchange capabilities that allow them
not only to retrieve information from EHRs but also to write back data such as care gap
closures, risk scores, updated assessments, and program enrollment status.
Technology requirements for APMs should also recognize their need to integrate
diverse data types to create a full picture of patient health and cost drivers. The ability to
support patient attribution and cohort management across multiple systems is vital.
These enhanced requirements should be balanced with flexibility in implementation to
ensure participation is feasible for both large and small organizations.
VB-10. In the Calendar Year (CY) 2024 Physician Fee Schedule final rule (88 FR
79413), CMS established that CEHRT requirements for Advanced APMs beyond

those in the “Base EHR” definition should be flexible based on what is applicable
to the APM that year based on the area of clinical practice. What certification
criteria should CMS identify under this flexibility for specific Advanced APMs, or
for Advanced APMs in general? Are there specific flexibilities or alternatives to
consider for smaller or resource-constrained (such as rural) providers in meeting
CEHRT requirements without compromising quality of care or availability of
performance data?
CMS should prioritize certification criteria that support modular, interoperable
capabilities aligned to clinical domain needs such as risk scoring, care coordination, and
closed-loop referrals. Flexibilities could include allowing alternative certification for tools
that integrate with certified EHRs and support for data intermediaries. For small or rural
providers, offering cloud-based, certified shared services and grant-funded
implementation support would reduce barriers without sacrificing care quality or
reporting accuracy.
3. Technical Standards
VB-11. What specific interoperability challenges have you encountered in
implementing value-based care programs?
We’ve identified three major interoperability challenges in implementing value-based
care programs
- Difficulty in accessing claims data
- Inconsistency methodology in writing back actionable insights
- Difficulty retrieving unstructured notes and documents as a one-time load
VB-12. What technology standardization would preserve program-specific
flexibility while promoting innovation in APM technology implementation?
ELLKAY has experience working with community hospitals in rural areas. We’ve had to
use proprietary methods to integrate with those systems due to the lack of availability of
standards-based methods such as robust FHIR resources, interfaces, and 837 claims
data.
VB-13. What improvements to existing criteria and standards would better
support value-based care capabilities while reducing provider burden?
- Mandating CDS Hooks implementation across EMRs
- Mandating FHIR R4 APIs for all certified health systems
- Align on semantic interoperability standards such as SNOMED, LOINC, ICD-10,
CPT, RxNorm

VB-14. How could implementing digital identity credentials improve value-based
care delivery and outcomes?
Currently, patients need to recall the login credentials for every health IT system they’ve
been to in order to send their record to applications. Each health IT system generally
has different patient portals. Using IAL-2/AAL2 compliant technology will allow patients
to aggregate their data across disparate health IT systems and send them to a value-
based care organization.
Implementing IAL2/AAL2
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help
improve access to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What
key data elements would be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory
to maximize its effectiveness?
A nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints would greatly help access to patient
data. This would be a foundational piece in helping providers, payers, and digital health
application developers in determining where to access certain pieces of patient data.
One suggestion to enhance this network would be to provide a record locator service
and patient consent infrastructure. This way payers can look up what locations patients
have been to, and patients can consent to payers or other parties accessing their data.