June 16, 2025
The Honorable Mehmet Oz, MD
Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244
Submitted electronically via www.regulations.gov
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
Dear Administrator Oz:
Kaiser Permanente appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/Office of
the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology’s (ONC) (collectively ASTP/ONC)
request for information (RFI)1 soliciting public comment to inform efforts to improve the health
technology infrastructure.
Kaiser Permanente2 is the largest private integrated health care delivery system in the United
States, with more than 12.6 million members in eight states and the District of Columbia. Kaiser
Permanente’s mission is to provide high-quality, affordable health care services and to improve
the health of our members and the communities we serve. In addition, Risant Health, a nonprofit
organization created by Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, is dedicated to improving the health of
millions of people by bringing together like-minded organizations to increase access to high-
quality, value-based care.3
Kaiser Permanente has a long history of leveraging technology to support our fully integrated,
value-based model of care and coverage. Through the value-based platform we are developing
with Risant Health, we leverage our clinical knowledge and technology tools to bring evidence-
based care protocols to providers and consumers to improve health outcomes and lower costs. As
health IT continues to rapidly evolve, Kaiser Permanente approaches digital transformation
through the lens of value-based care and we appreciate efforts by CMS and ASTP/ONC modernize
the health information technology infrastructure.
In addition to our more detailed comments below, we ask that the administration pursue the
following high-priority policy actions:
1 90 Fed. Reg. 21034 (May 16, 2025).
2 Kaiser Permanente comprises Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., one of the nation’s largest not-for-profit health plans, and its
health plan subsidiaries outside California and Hawaii; the not-for-profit Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, which operates 40 hospitals
and more than 600 other clinical facilities; and the Permanente Medical Groups, self-governed physician group practices that
exclusively contract with Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and its health plan subsidiaries to meet the health needs of Kaiser
Permanente’s members.
3 Risant Health currently provides high-quality, value-based care to more than 3 million patients and members.
One Kaiser Plaza
Oakland, CA 94612

Kaiser Permanente Comments
Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
• Improve identity verification processes through a decentralized, privacy-preserving
standards-based digital identity framework that enables payers and providers to jointly
authenticate individuals and participate in trust ecosystems, without requiring use of
intermediaries.
• Develop a standards-based, open access directory that includes validated Health Level
Seven International (HL7) Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) standard
endpoints, identity credentials, trust anchors, status of participation in the Trusted
Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) and network affiliation to
support health plan provider directories, patient health care data sharing and health care
business transactions.
• Build upon TEFCA to support expanded data sharing purposes across and among federal
agencies, health care entities, apps, and individuals. Expanded purposes should include
clinical research, health care quality and patient safety reporting, public and population
health, health care payment and risk reporting.
• Improve electronic prior authorization (PA) and other administrative transaction processes
by providing payers and providers flexibility to use recognized alternative standards to
outdated Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)
administrative transaction standards.
The health care interoperability landscape is rapidly evolving, driven by technological
advancements, regulatory changes and a growing emphasis on patient-centric care. A coordinated
approach is essential to maximize the benefits and minimize the administrative burden and costs
associated with adopting and maintaining new technology. We recommend that CMS and
ASTP/ONC collaborate with the health care industry to select a few high-priority process
improvement opportunities. This will focus efforts and provide sufficient time for health care
payers and providers to develop, test and implement technical solutions. We also recommend that
CMS and ASTP/ONC work together to develop a coordinated interoperability implementation
plan and roadmap that accounts for all changes to standards and exchange requirements across
federal agencies to ensure inter-dependencies are appropriately managed and prevent unnecessary
administrative burden and implementation costs.
API IMPLEMENTATION
FHIR based application programming interface (API) solutions enable lower cost and more
flexible real-time access to data, facilitate seamless integration with various health care IT systems
and support technological innovation to improve patient care and outcomes. However, fragmented
implementation timelines, lack of coordinated technical guidance and minimal integration with
quality or network performance programs impede broad adoption.
To encourage greater uptake, we recommend that CMS incentivize participation across the
Medicare, Medicaid and qualified health plan (QHP) programs. CMS should also publish
ASTP/ONC reference implementations for FHIR-based APIs that payers and providers can
leverage to ease implementation. Finally, CMS should continue to enhance Blue Button 2.0 and
Data at the Point of Care as examples of foundational infrastructure for the digital health care
ecosystem.
2

Kaiser Permanente Comments
Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
Patient Access API
The patient access API allows patients to access and share information like claims, encounter
details and clinical data. However, many patients are unfamiliar with the technology and do not
understand how to use it. CMS could develop programs to educate patients about how APIs can
help them take a more active role in their care. This education campaign could also include
information about privacy concerns and risks posed by third-party apps and how to evaluate
information sharing requests.
Prior Authorization API
We support efforts by CMS to offer technological solutions that reduce administrative burden
associated with prior authorization; however, meeting the 1/1/2027 compliance deadline (CMS
Interoperability and Prior Authorization final rule) may not be possible due to anticipated
developer and vendor delays, which will compress the amount of time for payers to test and
implement. Also, it is unclear whether vendors are currently able to build the necessary reciprocal
interfaces to allow the EHR systems used by providers to connect with the PA APIs being built by
payers. This connectivity between the PA APIs and electronic health records (EHR) used by
providers is crucial to realize the functionality and utility of the PA API.
Therefore, we recommend that CMS delay the compliance dates for the PA API requirements by
one year to ensure payers have sufficient time to test and validate the APIs. This delay would also
allow time for vendors to develop solutions to integrate the APIs with provider EHRs, to facilitate
and promote provider adoption. Reporting requirements under the Medicare Promoting
Interoperability and MIPS programs for providers to use the PA APIs should follow at least one
full year after the newly revised payer deadline. For example, if the payer compliance deadline is
extended to 1/1/2028, then any provider reporting requirements should not be required until 2029
or later.
We also recommend that CMS delay or revise FHIR based Documentation Templates and Rules
(DTR), which is intended to ensure that documentation requirements for PA are met. However,
the standard’s lack of maturity may contribute to systems issues and instability during
implementation. DTR, in its current form, imposes a substantial implementation burden on
integrated systems like Kaiser Permanente without a corresponding benefit for providers or
patients. We recommend that CMS delay this provision until the standard matures and has been
tested and validated in a variety of environments.
Electronic Health Information (EHI)
Full EHI Access. We do not support and recommend against incorporating full EHI access within
APIs. We are concerned that the full EHI contains far too much information and would create
costly technical issues along with significant potential privacy concerns due to the large amount
of data contained in the EHI and the inability to account for individual patient preferences and
state privacy requirements.
Standardizing Patient Level EHI Export. We do not support specifying standardized API
requirements to support patient level EHI exports. Patients generally are not interested in this
3

Kaiser Permanente Comments
Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
functionality or format, and we are concerned that it will not be a good use of health care provider
time and resources.
DIGITAL HEALTH TOOLS AND PRODUCTS
Access to digital health tools and products empowers patients and caregivers to take an active role
in managing their health. CMS can encourage greater adoption by developing a certification
program that allows patients to identify digital health tools and products that can connect through
TEFCA to meet national standards for privacy, security, accessibility and interoperability. The
certification program should enable patients to compare tools and provide a ranking of important
features (e.g., language support) and also explain benefits of use, such as reduced out-of-pocket
costs, faster appointment scheduling or proactive reminders for care.
We also recommend that CMS study the relationship between patient digital tool adoption and
health outcomes and consider including incentives for providers and payers that offer access to
digital tools and products that improve individual health outcomes.
DATA SHARING
Information Blocking
The 21st Century Cures Act directed ASTP/ONC to implement a process for payers and patients
to report claims of possible information blocking. Unfortunately, many payers hesitate to report
potential violations, while patients are often confused about what qualifies as information
blocking.
We recommend that ASTP/ONC work with payers to develop and implement a structured
complaint process that includes anonymous submission options, secure follow-up protocols and
good-faith resolution pathways. We also recommend that CMS and ASTP/ONC provide
education, issue technical assistance letters and establish reasonable cure periods for all actors,
aligned with protections currently available to certified health IT developers. Patients would
benefit from materials that clearly explain what information blocking is and what steps patients
can take to access or share their information.
We also recommend that ASTP/ONC share anonymized details from information blocking
complaints received to date to help providers and EHR developers and vendors understand the
issues other actors are experiencing to design proactive solutions. However, we do not support any
potential proposals that would require providers to develop custom solutions for requesters and
instead recommend permitting providers to continue to leverage generally beneficial data sharing
capabilities.
We do not support and recommend against eliminating any of the current information blocking
exceptions. Instead, we recommend that ASTP/ONC revise the infeasibility exception to allow
providers to post alerts on their website or patient portal stating that the provider is experiencing
events beyond their control and is unable to fulfill requests rather than requiring the provider to
send individual letters to each requester. This change will reduce administrative burden and cost
4

Kaiser Permanente Comments
Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
whenever a provider is unable to exchange data due to unavoidable events like natural disasters or
cyberattacks.
Quality Reporting
Providers experience administrative burden when they submit quality reporting information to
both CMS and payers, despite the availability of certified systems capable of extracting data
directly. To address this, CMS should promote payer use of bulk FHIR APIs to extract clinical
quality data, shifting the calculation burden away from providers. CMS and ASTP/ONC should
work together to ensure certified health IT can support dual-purpose data reporting for use across
MIPS, MA Stars, ACO programs and payer-specific analytics. We also recommend that CMS
consolidate quality measurement requirements across programs and enable registry-based or
automated payer calculation pathways—promoting “collect once, report many” functionality.
Modernize HIPAA Transactions
Currently, the HIPAA Administrative Simplification Provisions require all covered entities to use
one standard and implementation specification to exchange data for each business function. This
requirement, while previously helpful to ensure standardization, fails to keep pace with rapidly
evolving technology and hinders innovation. Updating HIPAA transaction standards has been an
unnecessarily long process and has delayed the ability of HIPAA covered entities to implement
needed updates.
We recommend that CMS provide payers and providers flexibility to use recognized interoperable
alternative standards in addition to HIPAA transaction standards to improve administrative
efficiency, modernize health IT infrastructure and support value-based care models. This would
not eliminate the existing HIPAA transaction standards but rather create a path for more efficient
alternatives to be used. Without this flexibility, we are concerned that long delays experienced by
HIPAA covered entities to update transaction standards will be exacerbated, contributing to
increased costs and administrative burden for payers and providers.
For example, inefficiencies in exchanging prior authorization information can delay access to care.
Permitting a more flexible standards approach would significantly accelerate industry adoption of
more efficient administrative processes. We recommend starting with end-to-end FHIR based API
transactions using HL7 Da Vinci FHIR standards and implementation guides as an alternative to
existing HIPAA prior authorization exchange standards.
This approach would maintain existing baseline requirements for consistency purposes while
enabling innovation. So long as a minimum standard (in this case the named HIPAA transaction
standard and implementation specification) can also be met, willing trading partners should be
allowed to implement any recognized alternative standard and implementation specification. To
support this flexibility, CMS should develop an expedited approval process for these alternatives
to current HIPAA administrative transaction standards.
5

Kaiser Permanente Comments
Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
NATIONWIDE PROVIDER DIRECTORY
Kaiser Permanente supports CMS seeking ways to improve provider directory accuracy and
functionality, while reducing associated administrative burden. Accurate provider information is
integral for patients and consumers to access care. However, provider information contained in
existing systems is not reliable because it is not kept up to date consistently, contains inaccuracies,
and is not consistent across different systems. We are concerned that these serious challenges will
carry forward to future systems if not addressed proactively. We recommend that CMS first focus
on ensuring data quality, defining role clarity and responsibilities, streamlining regulatory
requirements and establishing accountable governance processes before implementing new
infrastructure or interoperability requirements.
Data Quality
Accurate data is key to ensuring provider directories are functional and reliable. We recommend
that CMS take the following steps to ensure that provider data is accurate and current before
proceeding with any exchange mandates or directory expansion:
• Work with providers and payers to design and implement a comprehensive data quality
improvement and management plan.
• Upgrade key sources of data (e.g., NPPES, licensure systems) to support new provider
types, telehealth identifiers, and group affiliations.
• Define and implement a formal validation process to ensure ongoing accuracy of data (e.g.,
centralized federal contractor, payer attestation pipelines).
Defined Roles and Responsibilities
We recommend that CMS define technical and functional responsibilities for any directory
operator or proxy, along with legal and regulatory safeguards for downstream users. We also
recommend that CMS define and support the role of TEFCA and qualified health information
networks (QHINs) in national directory services.
Design and Functionality
We support development of a standards-based, open access directory that includes validated FHIR
endpoints, identity credentials, trust anchors and TEFCA participation status and network
affiliation. These features would help resolve long-standing challenges to endpoint discovery and
credential validation, while supporting efforts to replace fragmented infrastructure with scalable,
standards-based platforms.
We recommend that a national provider directory function as a federated infrastructure that can
aggregate and index authoritative data sources without replacing or duplicating public facing
health plan provider directories. As provider directories can offer consumer-facing engagement
and brand assets, stakeholders should retain operational control over their respective data (e.g.,
payers over network relationships, providers over practice locations).
6

Kaiser Permanente Comments
Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
We recommend CMS explore a model that utilizes certified intermediary entities (proxies or
clearinghouses) to serve as routing infrastructure for FHIR-based data exchange. This would allow
one-time integration per actor, support traceability and auditability, reduce the need for bilateral
connections between trading partners and expedite administrative transactions without sacrificing
integrity or scalability.
Phased Implementation with Use Case Alignment
We recommend that CMS phase implementation beginning with establishing the infrastructure
necessary to support current interoperability requirements. Once that functionality is implemented,
CMS should consider expanding in stages to other use cases beyond provider directories such as
PA APIs, quality measure reporting, and public health and research data routing.
DIGITAL IDENTITY
Digital identity infrastructure can be used in health care to streamline administrative processes,
improve access to health records and ensure data accuracy, leading to improved patient
experiences and outcomes. Navigating multiple login systems adds administrative burden and
complexity for patients and providers. Credential service providers (CSPs) can be used to
streamline authentication processes; however, use of CSPs can also introduce privacy and security
risks when used in health care. Emerging cryptographic technologies, including person-centric
digital identities anchored to verified personal identifiers (e.g., identity wallets or cryptographic
credentials using zero-knowledge proofs) are currently being piloted in other industries and offer
scalable, privacy-preserving alternative to legacy credentialing systems such as CSPs.
We recommend that CMS and ONC/ASTP work with the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) to develop a decentralized, standards-based health care identity framework
that aligns with current digital identity and credentialing guidelines and frameworks4,5 and enables
payers and providers to authenticate individuals and participate in trust ecosystems, without
requiring the use of intermediaries or third parties. This approach supports secure access and
avoids requiring additional, unnecessary layers of manual attestations, or use of centralized
credentialing models that introduce risk. Additionally, this framework should be flexible to
accommodate various technologies (e.g., CSPs, cryptographic credentials) to ensure ongoing
innovation and improvement in identity verification technologies and accommodate patient and
provider preferences.
TEFCA
Clarify Role and Scope of TEFCA
The TEFCA network can reduce administrative burden for health care payers and providers and
promote nationwide interoperability, leading to significant cost savings and improved patient
outcomes. Unfortunately, at present, overlapping data exchange frameworks, limited utility for
4 National Institute of Standards and Technology. (2024). Digital Identity Guidelines Second Public Draft (NIST Special
Publication 800-63-4 2pd). https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-63-4.2pd
5 National Institute of Standards and Technology. (2017). Digital Identity Guidelines (NIST Special Publication 800-63-3).
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-63-3
7

Kaiser Permanente Comments
Health Technology Ecosystem RFI
payers, narrow application of regulatory flexibilities for providers and slow development of
additional use cases for the network collectively hinder fuller participation. To address these
limitations, we recommend that CMS and ASTP take the following actions:
• Support bulk FHIR-based exchange
• Expand TEFCA’s permitted purposes to include health care payment and operations to
incentivize adoption by payers
• Further expand supported use cases to include research, public health, and vital statistics
• Revise the TEFCA information blocking exception to allow sender-only to qualify
• Leverage TEFCA participation to streamline existing exchange attestation requirements in
interoperability program requirements to reduce duplicative compliance frameworks
• Expand use of TEFCA to connect individual patients and caregivers to applications that
manage data sharing for health and wellness
We support leveraging TEFCA to support data sharing between and among federal agencies and
health care entities to serve multiple purposes. For example, TEFCA supports efforts to expand
value-based care by enabling effective care coordination, outcome measurement and risk
management activities necessary to support value-based payment models. TEFCA can also be used
to support public health reporting and surveillance activities between health care entities, local
public health authorities and the Centers for Disease Control. Additional TEFCA use cases should
be developed, with specifications published and maintained in coordination with federal agencies
and private national health care accreditation organizations to support: health care quality and
patient safety electronic measure reporting, public health electronic case reporting and syndromic
surveillance reporting, vital statistics, including birth and mortality reporting and human subjects
research authorized data sharing.
* * *
Kaiser Permanente appreciates CMS and ASTP/ONC’s consideration of our comments, and we
look forward to continued collaboration. Please feel free to contact me at Jamie.Ferguson@kp.org
or Megan Lane at Megan.A.Lane@kp.org with questions or if we can provide additional
information.
Sincerely,
Jamie Ferguson
Vice President, Health IT Strategy and Policy
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
8