June 16, 2025
Submitted electronically via https://www.regulations.gov
The Honorable Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20201
Dr. Thomas Keane
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology
330 C St. SW, Floor 7
Washington, D.C. 20201
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem [CMS-0042-NC; RIN 0938-AV68]
Dear Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane:
MRO Corporation (MRO) appreciates the opportunity to provide comments in response to the
published Request for Information (RFI) regarding the Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-
NC).1 MRO is a leading healthcare technology company that facilities the exchange of clinical data
between hospitals, clinics, payers, and other users of clinical data. Our solutions include, but are
not limited to, quality reporting, payment and audit validation, Healthcare Effectiveness Data and
Information Set (HEDIS) reporting, and Release of Information (ROI). MRO partners with hospitals,
health systems, and physician practices across the country on their ROI solution for the secure,
compliant, and efficient exchange of Protected Health Information (PHI). KLAS Research has named
MRO the #1 provider of ROI services for eleven years, reflecting direct client feedback and reviews.
We are connected to over 1,100 hospitals, 35,000 clinics, 170,000 individual practitioners, and
250+ electronic health record (EHR) and health IT systems.
MRO strongly supports the steps the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS or the
Agency) and the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology (ASTP/ONC) are taking to modernize the nation’s digital health ecosystem
through greater access to innovative health technologies. As a clinical data management company,
MRO performs an essential role for healthcare providers to facilitate the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)-compliant release of health information to patients and
authorized requesters, navigating the complex and expanding digital environment. MRO
1 90 FR 21034 (May 16, 2025).
1000 Madison Ave. Suite 100 | Norristown, PA 19403 | www.mrocorp.com

appreciates CMS and ASTP/ONC leadership and shares the goals of the RFI to examine ways to
best advance a seamless, secure, and patient-centered digital health infrastructure.
MRO is committed to protecting the privacy and security of patient PHI and providing secure,
compliant, and efficient patient access to health information. We support efforts to improve care
quality and patient experience through innovation and enhanced interoperability. However,
increased data sharing must not compromise privacy. Patient, provider, and payer trust in the
security and privacy of health information is paramount to achieving enhanced data sharing and
interoperability across the healthcare ecosystem. Without strong oversight, application
programming interfaces (APIs) can expose PHI beyond patient intent or awareness. At the same
time, privacy and security concerns should not be used to unnecessarily block the flow of
information. We believe that APIs should be enabled with safeguards that enforce HIPAA
protections.
The below Executive Summary highlights the key themes of our comments, and our detailed
responses (numbered in accordance with the RFI) follow.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
To enhance data sharing and interoperability, while ensuring that patient health information
remains private and secure, we believe that policymakers should focus efforts on:
• Revisiting the existing information blocking rules with a focus on how to better enable the
exchange of health data while maintaining rigorous protections for PHI, and in a way that
drives fair competition and private sector innovation.
• Ensuring new technological innovations, including those using large language models,
adhere to or exceed existing HIPAA Standards and honor the intent of HIPAA with
particular focus on patient privacy protection concepts such as consent, minimum
necessary and sensitive personal health information. This is particularly important when
that information is transferred outside the realm of HIPAA Covered Entities and their
Business Associates.
• Solidifying the foundational elements of clinical data exchange and management directly
associated with authenticated patient access, consent, and patient care, through provider-
to-provider exchange.
We believe that these initiatives, taken together, will advance CMS’s and ASTP/ONC’s collective
goal of improving the quality of healthcare information exchange, will drive innovation in the
private sector, and will ultimately improve patient care.
2

* * * * * * *
E. TECHNOLOGY VENDORS, DATA PROVIDERS, AND NETWORKS
1. Ecosystem
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to stimulate
developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and
caregivers?
We see significant demand for digital products to support Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers.
Nonetheless, products have not realized their full potential because the data available for these
products is often incomplete or inaccessible. Because of this, MRO believes it is critical that CMS
maintain and enforce policies that promote information sharing and prevent information blocking
while maintaining information privacy and security. If CMS enables secure data exchange, we are
confident that the market will produce viable solutions for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers.
However, we do not think it would be a productive use of resources for CMS to promulgate
additional government regulation mandating the use of particular APIs or other technologies.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue
Button 2.0 API?
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies
to unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
MRO appreciates CMS interest in improving the use of APIs. We believe that the way to encourage
the use of APIs is through compelling use cases and requiring APIs to make available a richer data
set for innovative clinical decision support tools and other valuable clinical use cases. We believe
one of these compelling use cases would be reducing the burden of administrative reporting.
Moving to fully digital administrative data exchange would spur providers to adopt this
technology and would generate positive spillover effects into other compelling API use cases.
For example, Electronic Submission of Medical Documentation (esMD) submissions still rely on an
interface with inadequate traceability of transactions and failure reporting. Providers and Health
Information Handlers (HIHs) are required to build a CONNECT-compatible gateway to submit
documentation through esMD, which can be technically challenging and resource-intensive. We
also see a greater need for API adoption in quality submissions, in which many providers are still
3

required to upload pdfs manually to web portals. CMS efforts on Electronic Clinical Quality
Measures (eCQMs) are a good step in moving toward digital measure submission from EHRs.
Lastly, the Data Aggregator Validation (DAV) program administered by the National Committee for
Quality Assurance (NCQA), whose purpose is to certify the digital transfer of data for HEDIS
reporting, requires manual and analog validation processes for vendors to become certified.
Accordingly, we recommend that CMS address the inadequacies of these existing operational and
administrative processes to advance high-quality data exchange.
2. Digital Identity
TD-3a. Regarding digital identity implementation: What are the challenges and benefits?
MRO believes that widespread adoption of digital identity verification would improve data security
and improve efficiency, as long as the framework aligns with existing HIPAA best practices. The
major barrier to digital identity verification is the lack of common standards for trust in digital
identity verification across different technologies. Today, even in the same hospital, different
systems do not recognize the digital identity verification of other systems, requiring duplicative
credentialing and confusing verification processes as patients traverse through their care journey.
Dramatic efficiencies could be realized if an enforceable and interoperable standard of identity
could be created, such that a digital identify verification on one system would be trusted on
another.
In the market today, we see huge variations in identity verification standards, with some
technologies relying on a variety of sources including phone records, death master files, credit
records, and various other personal identifiers. This lack of standardization creates problematic
variation in accuracy and validity of identities. This can lead to a situation in which layered identity
requirements can simultaneously verify, and then fail to verify, an individual’s identity.
TD-3b. Regarding digital identity implementation: How would requiring digital identity
credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs)
impact cybersecurity and data exchange?
Standardized identity verification would improve information security and bolster privacy. Today,
there may be weak links in the identity verification process that allow malicious actors to gain
access to PHI for either criminal or economic gain. For example, we often see third- or fourth-party
impersonation of patients to request medical records. These parties then use this information for
their own economic benefit or for illegitimate purposes—often without the patient even being
aware that their PHI has been disclosed in their name.
3. Technical Standards and Certification
4

TD-4. How can CMS better encourage use of open, standards-based, publicly available APIs
over proprietary APIs?
While the use of APIs is an important part of interoperability, the focus on the widespread
adoption of publicly available APIs is, in our view, only part of the solution to interoperability.
Specifically, CMS needs to ensure that the use of APIs promotes high-quality, usable data. Many
vendors simply set up APIs to ensure they are minimally compliant with CMS and ASTP/ONC
mandates; however, these vendors do not adequately ensure usability and data quality standards.
In addition, MRO encourages CMS to prioritize API development for clinical decision support and
other patient treatment use cases. These APIs need to be well-functioning and widely adopted
before expanding to other use cases. Fundamentally, patient treatment APIs are aligned with the
needs of providers, who are essential actors in creating a high-quality healthcare data ecosystem.
Use cases outside patient treatment can burden providers and may ultimately fail if they are not
built upon a foundation of quality data.
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to health
information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a directory, and should
users bear a cost?
Providers and patients benefit from real-time access to medical information across different platforms,
but we do not believe that a national Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources® (FHIR) directory is the
best way to enhance access. Instead, we believe that authentication and data quality are more critical to
enhancing access to medical information than an endpoint directory. We are also concerned that the
creation of a FHIR endpoint directory could inadvertently enable non-HIPAA-covered entities to phish
for PHI for criminal or improper commercial purposes.
Regarding cost, non-HIPAA-covered entity stakeholders with an economic interest associated with the
medical record should bear the cost of record fulfilment. We believe that patients, providers, and
caregivers should continue to have access to medical records for treatment purposes for free or a very
low cost. This is the framework largely in place today. If CMS moves forward with creating an endpoint
directory, we ask that CMS make the directory available to all HIPAA Covered Entities at low or no cost.
TD-7d. Given improvements in language models, would you prefer a non-proprietary but less
structured format that might improve data coverage even if it requires more processing by
the receiver?
MRO does not believe that language models should be adopted to replace structured data
formats. On the surface, because so much medical information is documented as text in a notes
field, finding a standardized method to translate that text into useful data would have benefit.
However, utilizing language models to extract data from text would raise additional privacy
5

concerns, as PHI would be used to train the models. By nature, language models are probabilistic,
context-specific, and subject to change. We have serious questions and concerns around adopting
language models, including:
• Who would adjudicate conflict when models are producing inconsistent and context-
dependent results?
• Who would ensure that the model would not encode user PHI?
• Should the use of such models be limited to certain use cases, and who should enforce
those use cases?
• If such a model is developed using PHI, is the model itself protected by HIPAA?
In addition, developing, licensing, and sufficiently testing large language models is an expensive
endeavor and would introduce additional hurdles and costs for developers, which would slow
down their pace of innovation.
TD-9a. Regarding certification of health IT: What are the benefits of redefining certification
to prioritize API-enabled capabilities over software functionality?
MRO does not believe that there needs to be a binary choice between API-enabled capability and
software functionality. Both API-enabled capability and software functionality affect data usability.
For example, while certified health IT can support the exchange of non-health data (including
supplemental benefit data) via APIs, if there is no mechanism within health IT certification to also
ensure that users can discretely document such data within the certified products, those APIs
would not actually be functional. More usable and accessible data would catalyze investment both
in API development and in more capable software. Any specific use case may rely more on one
than the other.
TD-9c. How could ASTP/ONC revise health IT certification criteria to require APIs to
consistently support exchanging data from all aspects of the patient's chart (for example,
faxed records, free text, discrete data)?
MRO recommends that ASTP/ONC modify health IT certification criteria to ensure effective and
scalable document-based exchange. Today, much of the exchange of Consolidated Clinical
Document Architecture (C-CDA) documents relies on older frameworks and technologies, such as
SOAP web services and IHE profiles, rather than FHIR. We would support new criteria to ensure
that certified health IT can exchange multiple types of C-CDA documents through FHIR APIs. This
would allow innovators to tap into the existing FHIR endpoints that EHRs already offer for United
States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) data and to streamline the retrieval of Continuity of
Care Documents (CCDs), clinical notes, and other documents that are essential for individual
access and treatment use cases.
6

More broadly, we encourage ASTP/ONC to promote the maturation of modern interoperability
standards, such as FHIR and Clinical Decision Support (CDS) Hooks, as a fundamental step toward
enhancing health IT certification. New and improved certification criteria should align with mature,
vetted standards that ensure that health IT products offer consistent capabilities to innovators. An
example would be API webhooks: we support introducing a new certification criterion to require
certified health IT to offer event webhooks via a RESTful architecture. This requirement would
provide better scalability and precision in interoperability by notifying third-party apps of
important events for a patient, thus reducing the amount of repetitive polling that app developers
must bake into their products and allowing the industry to accelerate its transition away from
cumbersome Health Level Seven (HL7) version 2 interfaces. However, certified health IT products
should not have free rein to implement webhooks in a proprietary format. Instead, ASTP/ONC
should champion the maturation of FHIR Subscriptions and should establish them as the basis for
required webhook capabilities.
TD-9d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to API-
based data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
We believe that strong technology and business cases are essential to motivating providers to
respond with the greatest coverage and quality. From a technology perspective, providers have
embraced certified health IT and rely upon those products having robust capabilities. Certified
health IT must provide API tools and functionality that providers can easily use to deploy, secure,
monitor, and scale API coverage.
Interoperability must also be tied to a strong business case for providers. Providers must be
incentivized to utilize their certified health IT’s API tools to share data effectively, and these tools
must preserve the pillars of data security and patient privacy. We believe, however, that regulating
data quality and responsiveness at the provider level is unlikely to be successful, as this approach
would be nearly impossible to police effectively. In our experience, providers are more motivated
to share information using API-based technology when doing so is more cost effective. If APIs
solve a problem for providers, and leveraging that API requires data to be entered more
consistently and accurately, then providers will use that technology.
As ASTP/ONC encourages greater use of APIs, we note the inherent tension between greater use
of automated data-sharing and data privacy protection. For example, it is not always the case that
sensitive information (e.g., substance use disorder data protected by 42 CFR Part 2, reproductive
health information, or other PHI with elevated protections) is found in the fields where it is
expected to be. Highly sensitive data could inadvertently be transmitted via an API, and it would
be unclear who would bear responsibility for such a breach.
7

MRO does not believe that current standards of technology provide certainty that only the
minimum necessary information is disclosed appropriately. Accordingly, CMS must balance the
serious risks of inadvertent disclosure with the benefits of enhanced interoperability. Artificial
intelligence may be able assist in the prevention of unintended disclosures in the future, but this
capability is not yet mature to our knowledge.
TD-10. For EHR and other developers subject to the ONC Health IT Certification Program,
what further steps should ASTP/ONC consider to implement the 21st Century Cures Act’s API
condition of certification that requires a developer’s APIs to allow health information to be
accessed, exchanged, and used without special effort, including providing access to all data
elements of a patient’s electronic health record to the extent permissible under applicable
privacy laws?
While we appreciate the desire to promote the use of APIs, we believe the main issue is the
enforcement of existing requirements. For example, some EHRs provide different levels of data
access for a provider’s Business Associate than for the provider customer, which creates service
complications. Even when APIs are available, some EHR developers might use financial barriers, like
excessive fees, to limit data access. Thus, we believe that CMS and ASTP/ONC should focus on
enforcing the existing requirements and ensuring that economic interests do not limit data access.
4. Data Exchange
TD-15a, b. Regarding bulk FHIR APIs: How would increased use of bulk FHIR improve use
cases and data flow? What are the potential disadvantages of their use?
MRO believes that increased bulk FHIR capabilities would open the door to key use cases like
population health, data analytics, registries, and quality reporting. However, key technical
limitations would hinder the effectiveness of bulk FHIR. First, bulk FHIR APIs today must be
associated with a static group of patients that is defined in advance. There is little opportunity for
managing a dynamic list of patients and pulling data for it over time. Developers must contact the
EHR or provider to establish or update a group. Bulk APIs today generally have no programmatic
way to do this without special effort.
Next, EHRs are often limited in the amount of data that their bulk FHIR exports can support,
making scalability very poor and the usefulness of bulk FHIR relatively weak. If the amount of data
that is allowed to be transmitted remains low, then the purpose of “bulk” data transfers will not be
realized. Lastly, because greater interoperability and easier data exchange demand higher
attention to security and precision, bulk FHIR APIs must be developed with robust options for
filtering and precisely capturing only the minimum necessary information.
We also acknowledge that bulk FHIR could be vulnerable to potential abuse. There must be a
means by which providers can verify that developers have appropriate access to the correct patient
8

population and data points and a means by which providers can monitor bulk FHIR use. We feel
that our above suggestions—particularly a requirement for robust filtering options to enable
precise capture of the minimum necessary information—can inform essential guardrails.
TD-16a, b. What are the tradeoffs of maintaining point-to-point models vs. shared network
infrastructure? Do current rules encourage scalable network participation? What changes
would improve alignment (for example, API unification, reciprocal access)?
MRO believes that many interoperability challenges can be effectively addressed through a robust
point-to-point model. Point-to-point is not reliant upon shared rules and infrastructure. While
rules may provide parties that are unfamiliar with each other a minimum set of parameters on
which to exchange information, these rules can also limit the scope of data exchange between
trusted exchange partners. Point-to-point models are easier to modify and tailor to situations in
which data must be exchanged regularly between two trusted parties. Point-to-point models, done
correctly, can be scalable and rapidly deployed.
Shared networks present challenges around data privacy and security, even if a network model is
designed to create trust between exchange partners who may not be familiar with each other. In
practice, we have found that privacy and security standards in shared networks are not robust
enough, so data exchange is intentionally limited. A point-to-point model between two parties
who are familiar with each other and who trust each other, however, has fewer limitations and has
a greater level of quality and precision in the data exchanged. This greater data quality and
precisions boosts satisfaction for the data requester, reduces the need to seek alternative paths to
acquire the desired data, and enables more use cases with a richer data set.
TD-17. Given operational costs, what role should CMS or ASTP/ONC or both have in ensuring
viability of healthcare data sharing networks, including enough supply and demand, that
results in usage and outcomes?
MRO believes that, for networks to be useful, they must ensure privacy, security, and reliability. As
echoed in our other responses, if network users are concerned that information sharing may result
in a data breach, or in disclosure of sensitive patient information to non-HIPAA covered entities,
they will not participate. Additionally, if users encounter barriers to getting useful information from
their requests, they will not continue to use the network.
Solidifying the use cases around clinical decision support and other patient treatment activities is
the best starting point for a viable healthcare data sharing network. To do so, data must be shared
within the privacy and security framework of HIPAA. A data exchange designed around patient
treatment would have more inherent trust than a data exchange designed for multiple use cases
that may oppose each other. Additionally, we think the Agency should focus on ensuring
9

outcomes, not on developing the networks themselves. Ultimately, these networks need to stand
on their own and competition may be necessary to solve the issues that plague data sharing
networks today. The federal government can help create the right incentives and framework in
which independent networks can thrive.
5. Compliance
TD-18a, b, c. Information blocking: Could you, as a technology vendor, provide examples for
the types of practices you have experienced that may constitute information blocking. Please
include both situations of non-responsiveness as well as situations that may cause a failure
or unusable response? What additional policies could ASTP/ONC and CMS implement to
further discourage healthcare providers from engaging in information blocking practices?
Are there specific categories of healthcare actors covered under the definition of information
blocking in section 3022(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) that lack information
blocking disincentives?
The concept of information blocking in the healthcare marketplace is complex due to the interplay
between legitimate concerns about patient privacy and the overall market demand for information
and interoperability. Additionally, EHR systems have highly sophisticated and complex gatekeeping
mechanisms—such as permissions, access hierarchies, and embedded workflows—that determine
what providers and their authorized Business Associates can access or do. For example, we have
seen situations in which valid, authorized Business Associates are provided with lower-level data
access permissions than their Covered Entity counterparts, resulting in unnecessary workflow
constraints and other inefficiencies. These dynamics can stifle information flow, competition, and
innovation.
Also, when providers act to ethically restrict access to sensitive PHI (particularly in scenarios
involving vulnerable patients or contentious third-party requesters), they are increasingly met with
threats of legal retaliation, often under the guise of alleged “information blocking.” While the
federal rules were designed to empower patients and to reduce opacity in health data exchange,
such rules are frequently misinterpreted. Unfortunately, providers, already functioning within
overburdened systems, are rarely equipped—legally, financially, or institutionally—to defend
themselves against such threats.
We also frequently hear from our provider partners that the information blocking regulations are
becoming increasingly complex and difficult to understand. We therefore encourage CMS and
ASTP/ONC to consider ways to simplify the regulations when possible and to provide detailed
guidance to assist providers in understanding and complying with the regulations. We recommend
that CMS and ASTP/ONC revisit the existing information blocking rules with a focus on how to
better enable the exchange of health data while maintaining rigorous protections for PHI, and in a
way that drives fair competition and private sector innovation. Ultimately, CMS and ASTP/ONC
10

should endeavor to generate streamlined and clear information blocking regulations that are
informed by the modern technology environment.
Conclusion
We appreciate the opportunity to provide our responses to the Health Technology Ecosystem RFI.
If you have any questions about our responses, or need any additional information, please do not
hesitate to contact me or Adrienne Morrell, Vice President, Government Affairs
amorrell@mrocorp.com. Efforts to enhance interoperability across the healthcare ecosystem must
emphasize data reliability, quality, privacy, and security. We look forward to continuing to partner
with CMS and ASTP/ONC on these important efforts to improve data sharing, to accelerate
progress toward a patient-centered health system, and to ensure the privacy and security of health
information.
Sincerely,
Anthony Murray, CISSP
Chief Interoperability Officer
MRO Corporation
11