Response to CMS RFI Modernizing the Health
Technology Ecosystem
Submitted by: Confluent Federal
Contact: John Poulos
Email: jpoulos@Confluent.io
Date: June 2025
Introduction
Confluent Federal is pleased to submit this response to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS)
Request for Information (RFI) on building a modern, interoperable health technology ecosystem. Confluent delivers
the leading platform for data in motion powered by Apache Kafka, enabling secure, real-time data streaming across
complex and distributed environments. Our technology is widely adopted across federal agencies and commercial
healthcare organizations to modernize legacy systems, reduce latency in care delivery, and empower
decision-making with live data.
Within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ push to modernize and consolidate their vast health
technology ecosystem, there lies an opportunity to rethink how data is moved, shared, and acted upon. Many of the
frustrations and inefficiencies that currently slow healthcare progress stem from entrenched silos and the
disjointed, batch-oriented systems of yesterday. A modern federal health enterprise demands agility, security, and
the power to derive actionable insights from fresh data, wherever and whenever it is needed. Confluent’s data
streaming platform serves as a proven foundation for achieving these goals, weaving together the very capabilities
that CMS must consider to make its modernization journey successful.
CMS is tasked not only with overseeing the nation’s largest payer system, but with setting a standard for
interoperability, privacy, equity, and efficiency across the healthcare continuum. The current landscape is
fragmented, with essential insights locked in legacy databases or distributed across multiple clouds, on-premises
data centers, and siloed applications. As CMS embarks on the journey to consolidate and modernize, a real-time,
event-driven architecture offers a pathway to eliminate data silos and streamline data sharing across domains,
while supporting the flexibility demanded by both enterprise-scale operations and specialized programs. A data
streaming platform approach, like the one offered by Confluent, enables data to be shared securely and reliably
on-prem and in the cloud, under strict schema governance and with shift-left strategies that enrich data and resolve
errors early, rather than downstream.
Developers, Data Providers, and Technology Vendors
For those building, integrating, and maintaining the new digital backbone at CMS, flexibility and interoperability
are imperative. Event streaming with Confluent allows developers, health IT vendors, and data providers to
decouple systems and adopt integration patterns that are modular and robust. Open APIs, FHIR, and HL7 standards
© 2024 Confluent, Inc. | Confluent.io 1

allow development teams to establish seamless pipelines that move data across on-prem, multi-cloud, and legacy
environments, all while ensuring mainframe offloading or cloud migration can happen incrementally, without risk
to mission continuity.
Using decentralized data streaming and data mesh patterns, teams can bridge both domain-specific and
enterprise-wide boundaries, making sure that systems communicate regardless of their original architecture.
Confluent’s cluster linking feature mirrors events and data across environments, enabling efficient data sharing and
modernization with zero downtime. Schema registry, schema validation, data contracts, and metadata tagging offer
a new level of transparency and trust in integrations. By enforcing strong data governance at the forefront, teams
can discover, share, and quickly onboard reusable data products, while supporting 1-to-many distribution that
reduces duplicative pipelines and technical debt. This shift ensures CMS won’t be locked into one set of tools or
vendors, but will have an extensible, source-of-truth architecture that saves money and accelerates innovation over
the long run.
Patients and Caregivers
For the beneficiaries of CMS programs and their caregivers, modernization isn’t just a technical exercise—it
transforms the patient experience. Imagine a system where the Single Patient View is a reality: as a patient
transitions between providers, hospitals, or even at-home care, their records, lab results, device readings, and
orders move with them, up to date and denormalized for immediate use. Confluent enables longitudinal patient
records and near-real-time aggregation from disparate systems, supporting continuous monitoring—whether via
EHRs, IoT devices, or telemedicine platforms.
Telemedicine applications built atop real-time streaming architectures ensure clinicians have immediate access to
the most current patient data, while caregivers can rely on event-driven alerts for everything from medication
refills to eligibility determinations. This architecture enables actionable triggers for notifications and reminders,
improving outcomes by keeping contextual data perpetually current and relevant. AI-powered clinical training
environments can be constructed using de-identified, richly annotated streams, giving tomorrow’s workforce
realistic, compliant datasets to hone their skills.
Providers
Providers—hospitals, clinicians, and coordinating agencies—face mounting documentation burdens, disconnected
care workflows, and administrative slowdowns. Event-driven health IT powered by Confluent addresses these
challenges by integrating clinical and operational systems in real time. Patient admission, discharge, and transfer
© 2024 Confluent, Inc. | Confluent.io
2

(ADT) workflows, which historically rely on error-prone batch processing, transform into fluid exchanges where
updates ripple across EHR, lab, billing, and pharmacy systems as they happen.
This same architecture supports real-time claims management, dramatically abbreviating adjudication cycles and
reducing the effort required to keep provider portals and patient-facing applications updated. Schema validation
and strict governance throughout the streaming pipelines enforce data quality, while shift-left stream processing
strategies catch errors and standardization issues early. The result is a reduction in duplicative effort, higher trust
in the timeliness and accuracy of source-of-truth data, and more time for clinicians to focus on patient care.
Advanced use cases, such as real-time sepsis monitoring and AI-driven early interventions in cancer care, become
possible as continuous, high-quality streams feed analytics and ML models.
Payers
CMS and payer partners—insurers, accountable care organizations, and program administrators—need new tools
to thrive in an era of value-based care. With fully integrated, event-based data pipelines, claims, utilization, and
clinical trends are no longer locked in departmental silos. Streaming architectures based on Confluent allow for
rapid, responsive calculations of eligibility, risk, and payment. By harnessing change data capture integrations and
robust streaming patterns, payers can comply with interoperability mandates, such as CMS interoperability rules,
with agility.
Fraud detection too becomes a real-time activity, benefiting from event triggers that highlight abnormal usage
patterns or claims, while machine learning integrations can surface emerging threats before they escalate. The
ability to combine a Customer 360 approach—bringing together longitudinal and transactional data across a
member’s journey—enables more accurate risk assessments, proactive outreach, and rapid response to health
events, ultimately leading to better health outcomes and cost efficiencies.
Security and Trust
Security and privacy are pillars of any CMS modernization effort, and Confluent’s platform’s enterprise-grade
security is architected for compliance from the ground up. Robust data encryption both in transit and at rest,
mutual authentication, role-based access controls, and advanced audit trails all ensure sensitive health information
is always protected. Data stream governance provides continuous visibility and enforce compliance with HIPAA,
NIST, Zero Trust, PHI/PII, and federal regulatory frameworks. Multi-tenancy support allows CMS to share
infrastructure securely across programs and partners while isolating sensitive datasets as needed, reducing
duplication and protecting privacy without locking data away in isolated silos.
© 2024 Confluent, Inc. | Confluent.io
3

Real-time event triggers further enhance security posture by alerting operations teams to anomalies as they occur,
supporting zero-trust architectures and integrations with SIEM tools for ongoing monitoring and incident
response. By combining shift-left methodologies, enterprise security, and schema enforcement, CMS can drive data
integrity and guard against downstream data breaches or errors before they propagate.
Outcomes and Equity
The end goal of modernization, beyond mere efficiency, is to improve healthcare outcomes and advance equity.
Confluent empowers CMS to create a decentralized, governed ecosystem of real-time data products, where accurate
denormalized datasets can be composed for individuals, cohorts, and populations. A data mesh approach unlocks
cross-domain collaboration and analytics, so population health managers can spot disparities, react to events as
they occur, aggregate results in real time, integrate AI/ML/GenAI workflows, or rapidly deploy new services in
response to emerging health threats.
The ability to provide contextual, actionable data to everyone—from clinicians to community health
workers—ensures interventions are timely and relevant, closing gaps in care. Cost savings accrue as technical debt
is systematically reduced, duplicative ETL and integration work is eliminated, and durable, extensible architectures
allow federal programs to reinvest in care improvement, research, innovation, and core patient and member
services.
Potential Pilot Ideas
To jumpstart this vision, CMS could consider piloting an Event Streaming Reference Architecture that demonstrates
longitudinal patient records, real-time ADT synchronization, and secure streaming from wearables and home
devices, all unified under standardized event-driven APIs. Further pilots might focus on feeding AI models to
identify high-risk patients in real time, implementing fraud detection through event-based anomaly monitoring, or
building data marketplaces where securely managed data products support public-private innovation.
By starting with such pilots, CMS can validate technical approaches, quantify efficiencies, and set a scalable
template for system-wide adoption.
© 2024 Confluent, Inc. | Confluent.io
4

Closing
CMS stands on the threshold of a new era, empowered to set the pace for digital transformation in healthcare. By
embracing event-based data streaming architectures, open integration standards, and robust data governance, CMS
can offset and eventually replace the patchwork of legacy systems with a living, resilient, and extensible platform.
Confluent is poised to be a partner on this journey, offering a bridge from vision to reality—a future in which
secure, real-time information powers better experiences and outcomes for every patient, clinician, and
administrator in the healthcare ecosystem.
Further information on Confluent’s Data Streaming Platform and the solutions we support can be found below:
https://www.confluent.io/data-streaming/
https://www.confluent.io/solutions/
Sincerely,
Confluent Federal
John Poulos
jpoulos@confluent.io
Code Use Courier New
List<String> G7 = Arrays.asList("USA", "Japan", "France", "Germany",
"Italy", "U.K.","Canada");
String G7Countries = G7.stream().map(x ->
x.toUpperCase()).collect(Collectors.joining(", "));
System.out.println(G7Countries);
© 2024 Confluent, Inc. | Confluent.io 5