 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services [CMS -0042-NC] RIN 0938-AV68 RFI: Health Technology Ecosystem We applaud CMS for prioritizing technology to empower patients to make better decisions for their health and well -being, and we are grateful for the opportunity to respond to this request for information. Our response is based on our more than thirty years of experience in Medicaid as both a technology company and third-party administrator (TPA). At SKYGEN, we develop tech nology speciﬁcally for Medicaid, and we administer beneﬁts to more than thirty million Medicaid members in thirty -two different states for the top ﬁve largest Medicaid MCOs (Centene, CVS/Aetna, Elevance, Molina, and UnitedHealth), as well as smaller MCOs. SKYGEN is HITRUST certiﬁed at the highest level to demonstrate our commitment to s afety, security, and compliance. SKYGEN’s response center s around areas where we have longstanding expertise, and we would welcome the opportunity to further engage CMS as you develop related policies. In short, we recommend CMS develop what we call Medicaid Utility – the essential tech infrastructure to optimize stakeholder interoperability and communications, empower Medicaid beneﬁciaries , equip providers, and support states and managed care organizations to shift from a sick care model to a prevention and wellness paradigm . By bringing all the relevant data into one central system, CMS and its state partners can also build beneﬁciary -facing solutions ( e.g., apps) to help beneﬁciaries navigate the system, focus on prevention, and access the right level of care at the right time. Patients and Caregivers Healthcare is highly fragmented . Patients and caregivers ﬁnd the healthcare system to be hard-to -understand and to navigate for a wide range of reasons including the lack of information and communication . Medicaid is even more fragmented , and we do not provide adequate tools to help beneﬁciaries better manage their care or navigate the system. As a result, too many Medicaid patients stop trying to get the care they need to be healthy, until it is absolutely necessary. 
 Here is the good news – technology now exist s to make Medicaid easy -to-understand, easy - to-access, and easy -to-navigate for Medicaid patients and caregivers seeking integrated whole -person health care from trusted, quality providers. Other industries (ﬁnancial, travel, food, real estate, entertainment) use the latest tech, speciﬁcally smartphones, apps, and now AI to create a better experience for their customers. Medicaid beneﬁciarie s who are also consumers have embraced these services in other aspects of their lives and rely on their smartphones on a daily basis. In fact, the smartphone is the preferred method for Medicaid beneﬁciaries access the internet. A 2022 BCG survey found 91 percent of Medicaid beneﬁciaries are online, wi th 96 percent accessing the internet from their smartphones. The same survey found a majority of Medicaid beneﬁciaries use mobile banking apps on a daily basis – a clear signal that Medicaid beneﬁciaries are digitally savvy and would use a one -stop Medicaid app if it were available. There is a signiﬁcant opportunity for CMS and its state partners to use available technology to modernize Medicaid and empower patients and their caregivers with more personal solutions to better manage their health, easily navigate the healthcare system, and for members/patients who follow their health and wellness protocol to be rewarded for their efforts. For example, every Medicaid beneﬁciary should have access to a one -stop app that has all the information they need to manage their care – from preve ntive health guidance and recommendations to the contact information for their care team. The platform could also provide easy avenues to ﬁnd and book telehealth consultations, helping avoid more expensive and unnecessary trips to the emergency room. Evidence shows Medicaid beneﬁciaries prefer to interact digitally with the health are system, but that is often not possible today. While developing this beneﬁciary -f a c i n g s o l u t i o n m a y s e e m o b v i o u s , t h e ﬁ r s t s t e p i s connecting the various Medicaid data systems into one environment ( i.e., Medicaid Utility) and providing the appropriate API for state partners to build the consumer -facing apps and tools. Ultimately, these same tools will be useful to Medicaid providers and CMS and its state partners to facilitate program integrity initiatives. Providers Health care providers also embrace technology that adds value to their work, especially when it is seamlessly integrated into their existing workﬂows and allows them to spend more time face -to-face with their patients. 
 A centralized essential tech infrastructure for Medicaid will equip health care providers with the information they need about their patients – improving interoperability and cutting down on unnecessary administrative paperwork. For example, it is essential for providers to have information about prior visits, regardless of whether it was to the emergency room, the neighborhood clinic, or a specialist. As we push toward value -based care, Medicaid Utility will also give providers an easy avenue to communicate with their patients beyond the initial visit. The goal is to keep beneﬁciaries healthy and that can only be done if beneﬁciaries have the tools and resources they need to comply with the recommendations from their clinicians. Technology Vendors, Data Providers and Networks As mentioned, SKYGEN has more than thirty years of experience in Medicaid as both a technology company and third-party administrator (TPA). At SKYGEN, we develop best-in - class technology and administer beneﬁts to more than thirty million Medicaid members in thirty -two different states for the top ﬁve largest Medicaid MCOs (Centene, CVS/Aetna, Elevance, Molina, and UnitedHealth), as well as smaller MCOs. Now more than ever, SKYGEN believes we have a once -in-a- generation opportunity to build the essential technology infrastructure to modernize Medicaid for all stakeholders. Here is one , ﬁctious example of the signiﬁcant challenges facing Medicaid stakeholders, and how the latest technology could modernize Medicaid, and help members, caregivers, providers, and payers secure better health outcomes and lower costs. Monique Robinson is a 23 -year -old, single mom with a 4 -year -old daughter, Ava, and a 2 - year -old son, Davion. Up to this point, Monique had accessed the healthcare system less than a handful of times, twice to give birth, and twice visiting the ER when Ava was having trouble breathing. One frigid Friday night in February, Ava and Davion started feeling sick. On Saturday, they both seemed sicker, and they were even worse on Sunday. It was so bad Monique wanted to take Ava and Davion to the ER, but she did not have transportation. Monique’ s mom told her to call the MKE Community Health Center, a federally qualified health center. Monique called and luckily, a helpful care coordinator had time t o help. 
 Here is where our technology makes a difference. Without the modernization of Medicaid, the next step for Monique would be to do nothing , or to somehow find a way to the closest emergency department. With SKYGEN ’s technology recommendat ions for the modernization of Medicaid, the care coordinator help s Monique download the State Medicaid Connect app, and request a virtual appointment in the app. Within 30 minutes, Monique i s virtually meeting with a nurse. Prior to the meeting, the nurse reviewed Monique, Ava, and Davion’s health records in the Medicaid Utility, so she had a baseline to start the appointment. With all the needed information, the nurse provides Monique with the next steps to help care for Ava and Davion. They avoi d another trip to the emergency depart ment , and Monique simply communicates with the nur se as needed in getting her children bac k to being healthy. Four months later, Monique was not feeling well. She was nauseous and could not eat breakfast most mornings. During the day, she was unusually tired and anxious. Again , here is where our technology makes a difference in Monique ’s health and wellness . Without the modernization of Medicaid, the next step for Monique would be to postpone getting care (and unfortuna tely the outcome would be poor). With SKYGEN ’s tech recommendat ions for the modernization of Medicaid, Monique open s her State Medicaid Connect app ; and simply request s a virtual appointment. Within 60 minutes, Monique i s virtually meeting with a nurse. Prior to the meeting, the nurse went to the Medicaid Utility to review Monique’s health records. The nurse noted Monique was diabetic and on two medications with potential negative drug interactions. The nurse sent a message to Monique’s PCP to check on this situation. She also saw Monique had advanced periodontal disease. During the virtual appointment, the nurse chatted with Monique about her symptoms, and she recommended Monique take a home pregnancy test. If it was positive, she instructed Monique to re ach out to her OB/GYN or PCP or the MKE Pregnancy Help Center. Monique was glad she followed through on the PA’s recommendation. She was three months pregnant, and she was starting to feel really overwhelmed. Monique f ound MySwaddle on her State Medicaid Connect app , and she received the ongoing care coordination, education, and support needed to deliver a healthy baby. Fortunately , Monique is one of the lucky ones. 
 Unfortunately, the United States ranks 55th and 54th in maternal and infant mortality for moms and babies relying on Medicaid. More than forty percent of the babies born annually in the U.S. and their moms rely on Medicaid. That is more than one million moms and babies who are vulnerable to poor health outc omes each year. Here is the good news. According to the CDC, more than 80% of the poor maternal + infant outcomes are preventable with basic interventions. Value -Based Care Organizations SKYGEN’s founder has had decades of success in developing value -based care sys tems and organizations, including a proprietary global budget allocation system to decrease costs and increase outcomes. SKYGEN’s sister company, Holista, is a value -based organization with Single -Point Solution, the only end -to-end technology that empowers a variety of value - based programs with transparent costs and personalized support leading to lower costs and better outcomes. Based on our experience, value -based care is only successful if we provide the right tools to help patients stay healthy, navigate the system when they need care, and provide the right support to help patients follow their c are plans . We encourage CMS to prioritize efforts to consi der alte rnative p ayment programs, build the essential tech infrastructure , use API s to bring toge ther the needed info all in one place for stakeholders, and to work with developers to build out apps and other tools to make it easier for Medicaid beneﬁciaries to communicate simply and navigate the Medicaid Health care system seamlessly . Summary In summary, we strongly encourage CMS to modern ize Medicaid b y build ing Medicaid Utility – the essential tech infrastructure and communication eco system to optimize stakeholder interoperability and communications, empower Medicaid beneﬁciaries , equip providers, and support states and managed care organizations in the shift from a sick care model to a prevention and wellness paradigm , We would welcome the opportunity to further discuss Medicaid Utility and be a resource as CMS looks to modernize the Medicaid program , and to mak e America healthy agai n. 