Comment on the HHS Health Sector AI Request for Information
Subject: Addressing Agentic Drift in Non-Device AI Through Deterministic Semantic
Memory
Submitted to:
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Health Sector Artificial Intelligence Request for Information (RFI)
I. Introduction
Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the HHS Health Sector AI Request for
Information. This comment addresses a practical and currently under-addressed barrier to
the safe deployment of non-device artificial intelligence in health insurance, benefits
communication, and utilization management: the absence of a deterministic semantic
memory layer capable of anchoring AI systems to authoritative policy, benefit, and
regulatory definitions.
While current discussions appropriately emphasize data access, interoperability, and
model governance, these approaches alone do not resolve a recurring operational failure
observed in deployed AI systems—agentic drift.
Several submissions correctly emphasize post-deployment monitoring, organizational
governance, and improved data completeness; however, these approaches still depend on
a deterministic semantic layer to ensure AI outputs apply authoritative policy meaning
consistently and can be audited without model inspection.
This approach operationalizes the “AI-enabling infrastructure and documentation”
principles articulated in OMB Memorandum M-25-21 (September 2025) by making
authoritative policy meaning explicit, versioned, and auditable for high-impact
administrative AI systems.
II. Practical Barrier: Agentic Drift in Non-Device AI
Agentic drift refers to the tendency of AI systems to diverge from authoritative policy intent,
benefit definitions, and regulatory meaning over time when operating without a persistent,
verifiable semantic memory substrate.
In regulated benefit environments, this manifests as:
• Inconsistent interpretations of coverage and cost-sharing across AI systems

• Hallucinated or outdated benefit explanations
• Divergence between plan documents, regulatory guidance, and AI-generated
communications
• Limited ability to audit, explain, or reproduce how a specific output was generated
This failure mode is increasingly visible in Medicare Advantage and other federal benefit
programs where AI systems assist beneficiaries, providers, and administrative workflows.
III. Data Transport vs. Semantic Determinism
Existing health IT infrastructure has made substantial progress in data transport:
• FHIR and related interoperability standards enable structured, standardized
exchange of health information.
• APIs and data services support real-time access to coverage, utilization, and clinical
data.
However, these mechanisms are intentionally neutral with respect to semantic meaning.
They do not encode authoritative policy interpretation, versioned benefit definitions, or
regulatory intent in a form that AI systems can deterministically retrieve and apply.
A deterministic semantic substrate should therefore be understood not as a replacement
for FHIR-based exchange, but as the semantic payload carried alongside it—providing
authoritative meaning where transport standards appropriately remain agnostic.
Deterministic semantic substrates represent a layer of semantic interoperability that
complements existing transport standards, enabling consistent meaning across systems
and reducing friction in cross-organizational AI deployments.
This distinction is increasingly relevant as agencies seek to satisfy emerging algorithmic
transparency expectations, including those articulated in the CMS-0057-F Prior
Authorization Final Rule, where explainability and reproducibility of automated
determinations are central concerns.
IV. Policy Concept: Deterministic Semantic Substrate for Algorithmic Transparency
HHS should recognize and encourage the use of a Deterministic Semantic Substrate for
Algorithmic Transparency as a missing governance layer for non-device AI.

A deterministic semantic substrate is a structured, machine-readable memory layer
embedded within authoritative content surfaces—such as benefit descriptions, coverage
rules, Evidence of Coverage documents, and policy explanations—that enables AI systems
to retrieve and apply versioned policy meaning deterministically rather than infer it
probabilistically.
WebMEM™ is referenced solely as an illustrative implementation of this vendor-neutral
protocol; the policy proposal itself is intentionally model-agnostic and independent of any
specific technology provider.
Key characteristics include:
• Explicit semantic structure (not inferred meaning)
• Stable identifiers and versioned definitions
• Provenance metadata tied to authoritative sources
• Cryptographically verifiable provenance (e.g., checksums or hashes) to support
integrity and auditability
• Human-readable and machine-readable parity
• Independence from any specific AI model, vendor, or deployment architecture
This approach shifts trust from probabilistic model behavior to content-level governance,
reducing reliance on inference where determinism is required.
By anchoring AI outputs to verifiable, authoritative policy fragments, this approach reduces
legal uncertainty by eliminating inconsistent interpretations that can lead to liability claims
or regulatory non-compliance.
V. Quantifiable Benefits for Program Integrity and Fiscal Stewardship
The implementation of a deterministic semantic substrate directly addresses several high-
cost operational pressure points in the 2026 Medicare ecosystem. These benefits are not
theoretical; they align with existing CMS thresholds, innovation model targets, and program
integrity cost centers.
1. Reduction of Appeals Friction and Administrative Adjudication Costs
As of January 1, 2026, the Amount in Controversy (AIC) thresholds for Medicare appeals
have increased to:

• $200 for Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) hearings
• $1,960 for judicial review
Observed Problem:
Probabilistic AI-generated explanations—particularly in Part D benefit communications
(e.g., misinterpretation of the $2,100 out-of-pocket cap or the $35 insulin cost-sharing
limit)—frequently trigger low-dollar, non-clinical appeals. In many cases, the cost of
adjudication exceeds the value of the underlying claim, creating negative administrative
leverage.
These appeals are often driven not by coverage disputes, but by semantic inconsistency
between AI explanations, plan materials, and statutory benefit definitions.
Impact of Deterministic Semantic Substrates:
By anchoring AI-generated communications to deterministic, versioned policy fragments, a
significant portion of these appeals can be avoided entirely.
Based on historical appeal mix and OMHA processing costs, a conservative directional
estimate suggests that reducing non-clinical, explanation-driven appeals by approximately
20–25% could yield meaningful annual savings through avoided administrative handling—
potentially on the order of hundreds of millions of dollars system-wide—while also
reducing beneficiary and provider burden.
2. Suppression of Agentic Upcoding and Interpretive Drift in the WISeR Model
The Wasteful and Inappropriate Service Reduction (WISeR) Model targets service
categories with historically high improper payment risk, including skin substitutes, where
Medicare spending increased from approximately $256 million to over $10 billion in a five-
year period.
Observed Problem:
Technology participants operating AI-assisted utilization management systems are
inherently incentivized to optimize toward cost containment benchmarks. In the absence
of a deterministic semantic substrate, this can result in:
• interpretive drift in medical necessity criteria,
• incorrect service grouping,
• or overly aggressive denial logic driven by probabilistic inference rather than
authoritative policy meaning.

These behaviors increase the risk of provider disputes, litigation, and retroactive payment
correction—undermining both savings targets and program credibility.
Impact of Deterministic Semantic Substrates:
Deterministic semantic fragments function as sovereign truth anchors, eliminating the
“interpretation delta” between policy intent and automated enforcement.
By binding AI-assisted determinations to verifiable, policy-scoped semantic definitions,
CMS can materially reduce one of the dominant contributors to improper payment risk in
automated utilization management. Even modest reductions in interpretive error rates
have outsized fiscal impact when applied to high-volume, high-cost service categories.
This capability directly supports CMS efforts to protect the projected $19.6 billion in
savings associated with 2026 Physician Fee Schedule and utilization reforms, without
requiring prescriptive regulation of AI models themselves.
3. Lowering the Beneficiary Support “Inquiry Tax”
CMS projects approximately $25 billion in increased Medicare Advantage payments for
2026, reflecting both enrollment growth and benefit complexity. As benefit structures grow
more complex, so does the operational burden on beneficiary support channels.
Observed Problem:
AI-generated misinformation—particularly regarding cost-sharing, benefit phases, and
eligibility—drives secondary and tertiary contacts to 1-800-MEDICARE and plan call
centers. These contacts frequently involve:
• correction of AI-generated explanations,
• manual verification of benefit rules,
• tier-2 escalations for issues that should be resolvable at first contact.
This creates an implicit “inquiry tax” on beneficiary support operations.
Impact of Deterministic Semantic Substrates:
Transitioning to a retrieval-first architecture—where AI systems cite cryptographically
verifiable, authoritative semantic fragments—reduces resolution latency and increases
first-contact accuracy.
Operational experience in adjacent domains suggests that improving semantic
determinism can reduce escalation rates by approximately 25–30% for explanation-driven

inquiries. Applied at scale, this represents a deflationary shift in federal customer service
costs while simultaneously improving beneficiary experience and trust.
Summary
Across appeals adjudication, utilization management, and beneficiary support,
deterministic semantic substrates convert AI governance from a reactive, probabilistic
control problem into a preventive, content-governance discipline. The resulting effect is not
merely improved accuracy, but structural cost deflation in areas where administrative
overhead currently outpaces policy value.
VI. Program Integrity and Anti-Spoofing Considerations
Binding AI-generated explanations and determinations to authoritative benefit definitions—
such as CMS Plan Benefit Package identifiers—also reduces the risk of automated
misrepresentation or opportunistic upcoding.
In this sense, deterministic semantic substrates function as anti-spoofing mechanisms for
federal benefits, ensuring that AI systems cannot misbind beneficiary identity, coverage, or
cost information in ways that advantage financial outcomes over regulatory accuracy.
VII. Alignment with Existing Regulatory Requirements
Deterministic semantic substrates can support compliance with existing disclosure and
accuracy requirements, including those found in:
• 42 CFR § 422.111 (Disclosure requirements)
• 42 CFR § 422.2267 (Required materials and content)
By ensuring that machine-generated communications remain anchored to the same
authoritative definitions as Evidence of Coverage (EOC) and Summary of Benefits (SB)
materials, such substrates provide a technical mechanism to reinforce accuracy
obligations already established under Subpart V—without introducing new mandates.
VIII. Policy Recommendations
HHS should consider the following actions:

1. Recognize agentic drift as a distinct and addressable risk in non-device AI
2. Identify deterministic semantic memory as a missing layer in current AI governance
frameworks
3. Encourage adoption of deterministic semantic substrates through guidance, pilots,
and innovation models
4. Support a federal reference implementation for a complex benefit program (e.g.,
Medicare Part D) to establish a baseline for auditable, machine-readable benefit
truth
5. Avoid conflating data access with semantic determinism when evaluating AI safety
and accountability
HHS could advance this approach through existing vehicles—such as the AI Governance
Board, CMS sub-regulatory guidance, or limited voluntary demonstrations coordinated
with CMMI—without requiring new statutory authority or model-specific regulation.
These actions can be undertaken using existing statutory authority and sub-regulatory
mechanisms and do not require model-level regulation, new certification regimes, or
expanded federal operational responsibilities.
IX. Closing
Effective AI governance in healthcare will not be achieved solely by constraining model
behavior. It also requires strengthening the semantic signals those models consume.
Addressing agentic drift at the content and memory layer offers HHS a practical, scalable
path to improving transparency, auditability, and trust in non-device AI systems—without
stifling innovation.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Bynon
Independent Systems Architect

Appendix A
Illustrative Example of Deterministic Semantic Memory for Non-Device AI
Purpose of This Appendix
This appendix provides a concrete, illustrative example of how a deterministic semantic
substrate prevents AI hallucination and misinterpretation in a regulated federal benefit
context. The example is intentionally narrow and operational, demonstrating how
authoritative semantic memory can anchor AI outputs to verifiable policy definitions
without constraining model choice or behavior.
This example is illustrative only and does not represent a proposed standard or mandate.
A. Problem Scenario: AI Hallucination in Part D Cost Interpretation
Context:
Beginning in 2025–2026, Medicare Part D includes statutory caps on beneficiary insulin
cost-sharing. In practice, confusion arises when AI systems attempt to explain costs for:
• Combination insulin products
• Non-standard NDC groupings
• Formularies with tier-specific or phase-specific pricing
Observed Failure Mode:
When relying on probabilistic inference or fragmented data sources, AI systems may:
• Hallucinate monthly insulin costs above the statutory cap
• Misapply caps across benefit phases
• Confuse drug-level pricing with plan-level summaries
This constitutes agentic drift, not because data is unavailable, but because authoritative
semantic meaning is not deterministically retrievable.
B. Deterministic Semantic Approach (Conceptual)
Instead of asking an AI system to infer benefit rules from narrative text, a deterministic
semantic substrate embeds machine-readable policy meaning directly within authoritative
content surfaces.

The AI system:
1. Retrieves the semantic fragment
2. Applies the bound definition
3. Produces an explanation that is semantically locked to the authoritative rule
C. Illustrative Embedded Semantic Fragment (YAML-in-HTML)
Below is an illustrative example of an embedded semantic fragment representing a 2026
Medicare Part D insulin cost-sharing rule.
This fragment is:
• Human-readable
• Machine-readable
• Versioned
• Provenance-bound
• Checksum-verifiable
• HTML embeddable
<template data-semantic-fragment="medicare-partd-insulin-cap">
version: "2026.1"
fragment_type: "benefit_definition"
program: "Medicare Part D"
policy_scope: "cost_sharing"
policy_name: "Insulin Cost-Sharing Cap"
effective_date: "2026-01-01"
authoritative_definition:
rule_text: >
For plan year 2026, beneficiary cost-sharing for covered
insulin
products under Medicare Part D shall not exceed the
statutory cap
per covered prescription, regardless of benefit phase.
statutory_cap_usd: 35.00

applies_to:
- "covered insulin products"
- "combination insulin products containing insulin as an
active ingredient"
exclusions:
- "non-covered drugs"
- "supplies without insulin as an active ingredient"
binding:
benefit_identifier:
type: "CMS_PBP"
description: "Plan Benefit Package Identifier"
coverage_phase: "all"
provenance:
authority: "Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services"
authority_document:
type: "Statute / CMS Guidance"
reference: "Medicare Part D Insulin Cost-Sharing Provision"
policy_year: 2026
integrity:
checksum_sha256: "e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb924..."
checksum_scope: "fragment_body"
intended_use:
- "AI beneficiary communications"
- "AI-assisted plan explanations"
- "Audit and compliance verification"
notes:
- "This fragment represents authoritative semantic meaning."
- "AI systems should not infer alternate pricing outside this
definition."
</template>

D. How This Prevents AI Hallucination
When an AI system encounters a question such as:
“How much will my insulin cost each month under this Part D plan?”
A system consuming this fragment:
• Cannot exceed the defined cap
• Cannot misapply phase-based pricing
• Cannot hallucinate alternative interpretations
• Can explicitly cite the bound definition
This constraint is enforced at the system level. The AI system’s retrieval policy treats the
fragment as an authoritative reference whose fields must be applied, not reinterpreted.
Because the fragment is retrieved, versioned, and verified prior to response generation, the
AI system does not reason about policy meaning—it applies it.
Any output that diverges from the retrieved fragment can be deterministically detected and
rejected. As a result, the AI output is deterministic with respect to policy meaning, even
though the language generation itself remains probabilistic.
E. Audit-by-Design Characteristics
This approach enables audit-by-design because:
• The semantic fragment is versioned
• The provenance is explicit
• The integrity is cryptographically verifiable
• The policy meaning is stable and reproducible
Auditors can verify:
• Which definition was applied
• Which version was in effect
• Whether the AI output conformed to the authoritative rule
This capability is particularly relevant for innovation models and technology participants
supporting utilization management or beneficiary communication.

F. Relationship to Existing Infrastructure
This deterministic semantic fragment:
• Does not replace FHIR or API-based exchange
• Functions as a semantic payload alongside existing data transport
• Is independent of any specific AI model or vendor
• Supports existing disclosure and accuracy requirements without introducing new
mandates
G. Compatibility with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
This approach is fully compatible with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
architectures. In RAG-based systems, semantic fragments such as this are retrieved
alongside other contextual materials; however, unlike general reference documents, these
fragments are designated as authoritative constraints.
The AI system may use RAG to gather explanatory or supporting context, but policy
meaning is bound to the retrieved fragment and applied deterministically. In this way, RAG
enhances contextual richness while the semantic substrate ensures consistency,
auditability, and resistance to hallucination.
H. Summary
This illustrative example demonstrates how a deterministic semantic substrate:
• Prevents agentic drift
• Reduces hallucinated benefit explanations
• Improves auditability and accountability
• Strengthens program integrity
• Preserves innovation flexibility
By securing the semantic signal, rather than attempting to regulate probabilistic model
behavior, HHS can address a core governance gap in non-device AI.
End of Appendix A

Appendix B (Optional)
Illustrative Demonstration Concept: Deterministic Semantic Anchoring for Provider
Directory Accuracy
Purpose and Disclaimer
This illustrative demonstration is provided solely as a non-binding example to show how
the principles described in the main comment could be implemented in a low-risk,
operationally familiar context. It is not a recommendation, proposal, or request for
implementation, and does not imply new mandates, procurement actions, or centralized
federal authorship of provider data.
The example is intended only to help HHS visualize how deterministic semantic anchoring
could reduce administrative friction, beneficiary confusion, and audit complexity in AI-
mediated environments.
I. Rationale for a Provider Directory Demonstration
Provider directory accuracy is a persistent, well-understood challenge across Medicare
Advantage and other managed care programs. Inaccurate or inconsistent provider
information is a leading cause of:
• beneficiary confusion
• call-center escalation
• complaints and appeals
• compliance exposure
As AI-enabled tools increasingly answer provider network questions, even small semantic
inconsistencies (e.g., “in-network” vs. “preferred”) generate disproportionate
administrative cost.
This makes provider directories an ideal low-stakes, high-signal environment to
demonstrate deterministic semantic anchoring.
II. Illustrative Scope: Phoenix, Arizona
Geographic Focus (Illustrative):
• A single metropolitan area (e.g., Phoenix, AZ)

Content Scope (Illustrative):
• A limited set of credentialed providers and facilities
• One or more Medicare Advantage plans operating in the region
Hosting Model:
• A publicly accessible page on a participating organization’s existing website
(e.g., healthplan.com/anchors/phoenix-providers.html)
The page would appear as a normal provider directory to human users while embedding a
deterministic semantic anchor for AI systems.
III. Conceptual Technical Pattern (Semantic Anchor)
The demonstration uses a dual-surface publishing pattern:
1. Human-Readable Content
o Standard directory page content
o No change to user experience
2. Machine-Readable Semantic Anchor
o Embedded structured data representing authoritative provider facts
o Versioned, provenance-linked, and integrity-verifiable
Illustrative Example: YAML-in-HTML Provider Anchor
<template id="provider-anchor-phx-001" data-semantic-
anchor="provider-directory">
anchor_metadata:
version: "2026.01.03.01"
provenance: "Carrier-Internal-Credentialing-System"
last_verified: "2026-01-02T14:30:00Z"
integrity_hash:
"sha256:e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b
7852b855"
provider_directory:
- provider_name: "Dr. Sarah Chen"

npi: "1234567890"
specialty: "Endocrinology"
location: "Phoenix, AZ 85001"
network_status:
plan_id: "MA-PHX-2026-PPO"
is_in_network: true
tier: "Preferred"
effective_date: "2026-01-01"
- provider_name: "Phoenix General Hospital"
npi: "0987654321"
specialty: "Facility / Acute Care"
location: "Phoenix, AZ 85004"
network_status:
plan_id: "MA-PHX-2026-PPO"
is_in_network: true
tier: "Standard"
effective_date: "2026-01-01"
</template>
<div class="human-readable-content">
<h1>Provider Directory: Phoenix, AZ</h1>
<p>Dr. Sarah Chen is a preferred provider for our PPO
plan...</p>
</div>
This fragment represents locked, authoritative facts derived from existing credentialing and
network management systems.
IV. AI Usage Pattern (Illustrative)
AI-enabled tools answering provider network questions would be instructed to:
1. Retrieve the semantic anchor by ID
2. Verify integrity via the hash

3. Anchor responses to the explicit is_in_network and tier fields
4. Generate human-language responses only after deterministic retrieval
Example instruction:
Before confirming provider network status, retrieve the element provider-anchor-phx-001
and use the is_in_network value as the authoritative source.
V. Audit-by-Design Characteristics
This pattern enables audit-by-design without inspecting AI models:
• The semantic anchor is versioned
• Provenance is explicit
• Integrity is cryptographically verifiable
• AI outputs can be compared directly to the published anchor
If an AI system incorrectly states that a provider is out-of-network, auditors can simply
compare the response against the integrity-verified anchor for that date.
No inference.
No reconstruction.
No model inspection.
End of Appendix B