February 19, 2026
VIA Electronic Submission to www.regulations.gov
Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and Office of the National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Mary E. Switzer Building
Mail Stop: 7033A, 330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Re: HHS Health Sector AI RFI - Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use
of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Secretary Kennedy,
On behalf of the Digital Pathology Association (“DPA”), please accept the following comments in
response to the request for information (“RFI”) from the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
(“ASTP”) and Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (“ONC”),
entitled “Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part
of Clinical Care”.1
The Digital Pathology Association is a global community of over 4,500 pathologists, scientists,
technologists, and industry leaders dedicated to the evolution of modern medicine. Founded in 2009,
our mission is to facilitate awareness, education, and adoption of digital pathology and AI applications
across healthcare and life sciences. By sharing best practices and demonstrating the efficiencies of new
technologies, we empower our members to enhance workflows and, ultimately, improve patient care.
Our impact is driven by a diverse international membership and guided by six core pillars:
Collaboration, Education, Membership, Regulatory, Reimbursement, and Standards.2
Given our focus on revolutionizing patient care with digital pathology, we appreciate the opportunity
to respond to a subset of the questions, providing our perspective on steps the Agency can take to drive
innovation and the speed of adoption of digital pathology in patient care.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its adoption
and use in clinical care?
Innovators, providers, and patients face numerous different obstacles to the use of AI in clinical care
including, but not limited to, the following:
a. Investment and other costs of digital pathology are not systematically captured in
reimbursement mechanisms developed and managed by CMS.
1
See 90 Fed. Reg. 60108 (link)
2
https://digitalpathologyassociation.org/
T 317.816.1630 Toll-Free 877.824.4085
info@digitalpathologyassociation.org

In the development of digital pathology solutions, companies and laboratories incur meaningful
research & development costs as well as other operational costs (related to image acquisition,
computing and data storage, slide digitization, image analysis software, etc.). It is critical that these
costs are captured and contemplated as CMS establishes inputs into and ultimate payment rates for
these types of solutions under Medicare Part A and Part B. While CMS has nationally priced a number
of different AI solutions – particularly under the Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS) and
the Physician Fee Schedule (PFS), the Agency has yet to take a formal position on its approach for
rate-setting for these services. The absence of an established policy on its pricing methodology (i.e.,
how rates are established) translates to a lack of Agency transparency and predictability, a challenge
that can serve as a deterrent or roadblock to innovation.
b. Challenges in the timeline to and process for obtaining coding creates uncertainty.
The three pillars of reimbursement are coding, coverage, and payment. The ability to obtain procedure
codes that reflect the service furnished to patients is critical in order to obtain reimbursement.
Historically, algorithmic analyses of previously performed diagnostic tests had pursued coding through
the Proprietary Laboratory Analyses3 pathway. This pathway was beneficial to laboratories and
manufacturers for the following reasons:
▪ Limited time between code request and code effective date (significantly shorter than other
pathways);
▪ Specificity of the code descriptor to appropriately describe the innovation, and;
▪ Proprietary nature of the codes.
Unfortunately, recent clarification by the AMA CPT Editorial Panel eliminated this coding pathway
for many digital pathology solutions. As a result, there are fewer pathways available to obtain a
procedure code and these pathways (Category III and Category I) have longer timelines and higher
bars for success. By removing the option to pursue a PLA code, there is also greater uncertainty with
respect to how these solutions will be viewed and thus priced by CMS.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to
incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or
programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please
provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
As the Agency is contemplating policy or programmatic changes that would facilitate the use and
adoption of AI in clinical care, the DPA puts forth the following recommendations for consideration:
▪ Under the Outpatient Prospective Payment System, the New Technology APC payment pathway is
a critically important option, particularly for AI-based solutions that do not qualify for transitional
pass-through payment. To give stability and predictability to payment in the hospital outpatient
3
Proprietary Laboratory Analyses (PLA) codes were developed by the American Medical Association to identify
specific and unique laboratory tests.
T 317.816.1630 Toll-Free 877.824.4085
info@digitalpathologyassociation.org

setting, CMS should set a minimum length of time of five years for all qualified services to remain
in a New Tech APC.
▪ With OPPS, CMS has numerous different clinical APCs intended to represent services with similar
clinical and resource requirements. Given key differences between AI-based and non-AI-based
services, CMS should create a new clinical APC family for algorithmic services to ensure that
solutions in the same APC are in fact similar or clinically comparable and with respect to resource
requirements.
▪ For certain types of services, particularly ones that do not involve physician work, the cost for
furnishing the care is comparable across the different sites of service (e.g., hospital outpatient,
physician office). CMS should establish a process for quickly and consistently setting a payment
rate under the Physician Fee Schedule that (a) reflects the costs of the innovation and (b) is
consistent with the pricing approach taken by the Agency under OPPS.
▪ CMS/CMMI should establish a new demonstration model for AI solutions to help fund, facilitate,
and highlight the clinical and potential cost benefits of digital pathology workflows. This pilot
should apply across the different settings of care and should take into consideration the costs of
these capital-intensive technologies that necessitate on-going investment and continuous
refinement of the underlying models supporting the solution. The end goal of this model would be
the establishment of coding, coverage, and payment pathways to ensure appropriate reimbursement
and promote continued adoption of evidence-based AI technologies.
▪ For solutions recognized in guidance (e.g., National Comprehensive Cancer Network) or physician
society clinical practice guidelines, the Medicare Administrative Contractors should expedite the
establishment of positive, evidence-based local coverage determinations. The MACs have the
flexibility to move quickly under the current regulations and should be encouraged to do so in
these circumstances. These positive coverage policies would be beneficial not only to traditional
Medicare beneficiaries but also the ever-growing Medicare Advantage patient population. Positive
Medicare coverage policies will create a more favorable reimbursement environment, promoting
appropriate, scientifically rigorous, and clinically meaningful AI innovation.
* * * * *
The Digital Pathology Association appreciates the Agency’s recognition of the need to accelerate the
adoption and use of artificial intelligence as part of clinical care. We would welcome the opportunity
to discuss these RFI comments with you in greater detail. Please feel free to contact Abbey Norris at
877.824.4085 or ANorris@digitalpathologyassociation.org.
Sincerely yours,
/s/
Michael Rivers
Chair, Reimbursement Taskforce
Digital Pathology Association
T 317.816.1630 Toll-Free 877.824.4085
info@digitalpathologyassociation.org