1 FROM: Division of Digital Healthcare Research, Center for Evidence and Practice Improvement, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality TO: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology RE: Request for Information, CMS-0042-NC June 12, 2025 Background The Division of Digital Healthcare Research (DHR) in the Center for Evidence and Practice Improvement at the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) appreciates the opportunity to submit a response to the Request for Information (RFI), CMS-0042-NC. AHRQ’s DHR has been advancing patient-centered healthcare through digital health technologies throughout its 20-year history of evidence generation and dissemination . We offer the following insights, many gained from the recently funded Clinical Decision Support Innovation Collaborative (CDSiC), as CMS and ASTP/ONC work to improve today’s digital health ecosystem. Comments are organized according to the section headers in the RFI. Recommendations Patients and Caregivers To ensure high value, patient -centered care, patients, families, and caregivers should be meaningfully integrated into the design, implementation, use, and evaluation of patient -centered clinical decision support (PC CDS) . PC CDS refers to the knowledge, data, delivery, and use of patient-centered factors – and the tools to leverage those factors – to improve healthcare. The AHRQ-funded CDSiC has developed and disseminated over 40 products aimed at advancing PC CDS through d emonstration projects, measurement frameworks, peer-reviewed publications, and suggested use of standards , such as HL7 FHIR. Trustworthiness, reliability, ease of use, and effectiveness of patient -centered technologies have been consistent themes. The CDSiC portfolio of tools and resources was designed for external stakeholders to advance the field of PC CDS , which can be further explored, scaled, and integrated into other federal programs with ongoing investment. Many CDSiC products are directly relevant to questions in the RFI for Patients and Caregivers, and we encourage CMS and ASTP/ONC to fully explore the CDSiC resources. For example: • Patient Needs o Patient Prioritization of Measurement Areas for Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support - Developed by the AHRQ Clinical Decision Support Innovation 
2 Collaborative’s Measurement and Outcomes Workgroup, this report highlights what patient health journey measurement areas should be prioritized. o An Introductory Handbook for Patient Engagement Throughout the Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support Lifecycle - Developed by the AHRQ CDSiC Trust and Patient-Centeredness Workgroup, this handbook provides guidance on the best methods to engage patients in the development of patient -centered clinical decision support tools. o A Lifecycle Framework Illustrates Eight Stages Necessary for Realizing the Benefits of Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support - This article, published in the Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association (JAMIA), discusses a comprehensive patient -centered clinical decision support (PC CDS) lifecycle framework developed and vetted by members of the CDSiC team. The framewo rk describes the work that must be completed and data that must be collected, analyzed, or transmitted for healthcare stakeholders to implement and benefit from PC CDS, as well as identifies opportunities for patient and/or caregiver participation at each stage of the process . o The Technology Landscape of Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support – Where are We and What is Needed? - This article published in MEDINFO explores the current technology landscape for patient -centered clinical decision support (PC CDS) and what is needed to make it more shareable, standards -based, and publicly available. The authors engaged a technical exper t panel, conducted a literature review, and interviewed key informants to identify ten salient technical considerations that span all phases of PC CDS development. • Data Access and Integration o Improving Interoperability of Patient Apps with the Health IT Ecosystem - Developed by the AHRQ CDSiC Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup, this report identifies several opportunities for further advancement of patient -centered clinical decision support (PC CDS) standards to support the interoperability between patient apps and electronic health records (EHRs) and other health information technology (IT) systems. o Capturing Patient Preferences for Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support Within Patient Lifeflows and Clinical Workflows – This report offers various methods for capturing different types of patient preference data and visualizes these within patient lifeflows and clinical workflows. o Prioritizing Patient Preferences for Standardization to Support PC CDS - Developed by the AHRQ Clinical Decision Support Innovation Collaborative’s Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup, this report identifies key themes related to the routine collection of patient preferences, patient information that should be prioritized for standardization, and challenges with standardizing patient preference information. Providers 
3 CMS and ASTP/ONC should focus on evidence -based innovations that provide the right information to the right people at the right times, so that providers can make the best treatment decisions that align with their patients’ needs, values, and preferences. AHRQ ’s DHR funds grants and contracts aimed at optimizing care delivery for providers , using real -time data to improve treatment or diagnosis , and advancing technology solutions that enhance patient safety. With respect to specific questions in the RFI, AHRQ recommends the following : PR-1b. What information should providers share with patients when using digital products in the provision of their care? Based on knowledge gained from the AHRQ CDSiC, patients expect providers to disclose when using digital products in the provision of their care, particularly digital products that use AI. Se e Trust and Patient -Centeredness Workgroup: Patient and Caregiver Perspectives on Generative Artificial Intelligence in Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support . PR-3c. Technical barriers to full data accessibility Real-world implementation of digital applications, whether installed directly in the EHR or implemented as a service within a clinician’s workflow, is considerably more difficult than most implementers prepare for. Many AHRQ DHR projects have demonstrated successful implementation while revealing challenges in the use of various standards , application programming interfaces (APIs), and data models in live production. Writing patient - generated data and any other data from external apps and devices back into the appropriate fields in the EHR is particularly complex, especially if the data are to remain standardized, structured, and reusable for other applications. Write-back generally requires custom integration approaches that are unique to a health system’s EHR implementation. PR-4. What changes or improvements to standards or policies might be needed for patients' third - party digital products to have access to administrative workflows, such as auto -populating intake forms, viewing provider information and schedules, and making and modifying an appointment? CMS should enact policies that mitigate against unintended consequences, such as bias or discrimination, which can arise with increasing automation, including administrative workflows. B enefits of p atient-facing technologies and any underlying AI should be available to all patients. Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer -term steps can CMS take to stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries and caregivers? AHRQ recommends CMS and ASTP/ONC continuing to support the uptake of health IT standards among developers that use patient -generated health data and other types of data in patient -facing applications. The CDSiC has developed several resources on the use of standards for PC CDS, including: 1) An Overview of Standards for Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support , 
4 2) Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Workgroup: Improving Interoperability of Patient Apps with the Health IT Ecosystem , 3) Measurement and Outcomes Workgroup: Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support Planning and Reporting Tool , and 4) Measurement and Outcomes Workgroup: Patient -Centered Clinical Decision Support Planning and Reporting Tool User Guide . Thank you again for the opportunity to submit comments. Should you have any questions or if you would like to follow up with us, please do not hesitate to contact our team at DigitalHealthcareResearch@ahrq.hhs.gov . 