 ECG Case Stud y AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 1 AWS Health Competenc y – Case Study Leading FQHC, La Clinica de Familia, Partners with ECG to Provid e Behavioral Health Support to At-Risk Students Overview La Clinica de Familia, Inc. (LCDF) is a private, not -for-proﬁt federally qualiﬁed health center (FQHC) headquartered in Las Cruces, New Mexico (Doña Ana County) . LCDF provides quality health care for the entire family through a system of medical clinics, dental clinics, school -based clinics, behavioral health services, mental health services, and Head & Healthy Start programs. LCDF empowers and enriches families, individuals and communities by providing quality medical, dental, behavioral health and educational services for people of all cultures. LCFD serves a mostly low -income, under- insured, uninsured, and bilingual (mostly native Spanish- speaking) population. 22% of the 225,000 residents of Doña Ana County have incomes below the poverty rate: nearly twice the national average of 12 %. A Federally Qualiﬁed Health Center (FQHC) is a community -based health care organization that provides comprehensive primary care and support services to underserved populations in the US. These centers serve patients regardless of immigration status, insurance coverage, or ability to pay . Opportunity – Behavioral Health Support for At -Risk Students There are 16 FQHCs in New Mexico with 149 service sites. Nationally, there are over 1,400 FQHCs with 14,000+ service sites. More than 30 million individuals receive care through FQHCs, which serve as the backbone for healthcare in many communities across the nation. LCDF provides school -based health centers in 17 schools. With budget and staffing constraints, these schools no longer have the capacity to directly staff nurses and care team members. LCDF fills a critical care gap for already underserved kids. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), 40% of high school students struggle with mental health issues, while 20% seriously considered suicide. Given this mental health crisis among high school students, LCDF partnered with ECG to address the often unseen and untreated mental and behavioral health needs of high school students. Solution – Discrete Call For Help Powered by ECG’s AWS Cloud Infrastructure To address the needs of kids identified as at- risk, ECG and LCFD provide a discrete emergency alert button to high school students. This system leverage Wi-Fi and cellular communication protocols to enable students to alert LCDF counselors if they are feeling heightened stress, anxiety, hopelessness, or fear. The system includes location tracking and two -way voice communications, if needed. Through the system, students can request support without the embarrassment or stigmatization which would occur via a m ore public request for assistance. Without this system, students in crisis may hesitate to seek help, or responses may be delayed, leaving them without timely support when they need it most. 
 ECG Case Stud y AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 2 ADDI, ECG’s cloud -based platform -as-a-service (PaaS ), powers this solution. Built on AWS, ECG PaaS utilizes over 24 Amazon services to deliver real -time support to B2B customers and end - users. With a life and health critical application such as behavioral health support of at- risk kids, AWS’s privacy, scalability, and redundancy provides peace -of-mind and assurances that the solution will be available as needed. Specifically, Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) for scalable and reliable compute infrastructure, and Amazon Sim ple Storage Solution (Amazon S3) for the most durable storage in the cloud and industry -leading availability. Outcome s – Expanding Access to Care at Critical Moments of Need The solution b ridge s the gap between students struggling with mental health concerns and timely, effective support. The location feature of these silent alarm devices enable s the LCDF staff to easily and quickly to locate students in distress and then assist them back to a state of equilibrium. By enabling real -time location tracking, staff can reach students faster, improving response times and ensuring that support is provided before the situation escalates. Given the success of the program at ﬁve high schools, LCFD is expa nding the program to all high schools within the Las Cruces Uniﬁed School District. This type of behavioral health support can be made available across all FQHCs nationwide. In addition, ECG specialized in providing culturally appropriate care with a multilingual staff experienced in supporting Spanish, German, Korean, Russian , Farsi , an d English -speaking users . 