 ECG Case Stud y AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 1 AWS Health Competenc y – Case Study Capstone Clinic Scales Telehealth & Remote Patient Monitoring Services Through ECG’s Direct Integration into Athenahealth’s athenaOne EHR Overview Capstone Clinic is one of the largest primary care physician groups in Alaska. Capstone Family Medicine provides comprehensive, high -quality healthcare across Alaska, with locations in Wasilla, Eagle River, and Palmer. The clinic offers a full spectrum of services, including urgent care, general surgery, endocrinology, obstetrics, pe diatrics, and employee health services. Serving both urban and rural populations, Capstone addresses the unique healthcare challenges faced by Alaska residents, such as limited access to specialty care and geographic isolation. Their proactive, accessible care is especially important for those with chronic conditions, ensuring timely and effective management. Opportunity: Direct EHR Integration to Automate Workﬂows & Scale Telehealth Capstone Clinic utilizes the Athenahealth athenaOne EHR. This is an EHR solution used by over 160,000 providers across the US , from individual practices to large hospital and health systems. Until now, Capstone’s telehealth and remote patient monitoring (RPM) programs were limited due to lack of direct integration into the EHR. This lack of integration resulted in programs which were labor intensive , expensive to administer, and requir ed manual reporting . This resulted in delayed billings and 90 -120 days post service financial payment. As such, the return -on-investment (ROI) for telehealth programs was limited and difficult to justify. Capstone and ECG have been collaborating to offer patient outreach, RPM , and chronic care management (CCM) services to patients requiring health monitoring at home. By remotely monitoring patients’ chronic conditions and providing medication reminders at home, Capstone is able to address patient non- adherence in a proactive manner. While the programs showed strong adoption and patient satisfaction, expansion was gated due to the cost to manually administer the program. Unlocking the program would require direct EHR integration. Solution – Leveraging ECG’s AWS -cloud based PaaS for Seamless EHR Integration In 2024, ECG partnered with AWS to modernize its data infrastruc ture to enable direct integration into EHRs, revenue cycle management (RCM), and care management platforms. ECG’s cloud - based platform -as-a-service (PaaS), named ADDI, powers all customer engagements. Built utilizing a microservices architecture, coupled with webhooks and APIs, ADDI enable d not only seamless integration of vitals data into the Athenahealth EHR but also enabled service provision to be tracked, alerts ﬂagged, and claim thresholds to be triggered. 
 ECG Case Stud y AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 2 Amazon Simple Storage Solution (Amazon S3 ) was used for cloud -based data storage and Amazon QuickSights for utilized for data analytic s. On the patient health side, anomalies to vital signs triggered an immediate alert within the EHR for timely clinical intervention. On the administrative side, revenue cycle management for these programs was transform ed. Formerly manual tasks such as tracking of when Medicare performance thresholds were achieved, and the creation of claims were now automated . “Direct integration of ECG’s Addison Care product into the athenaOne EHR is a game changer,” says Jason Haughen , CEO of Pinnacle Integrated Medicine , Electronic Caregiver’s EHR integration partner. “The resulting workflow, alerting, and claims reporting automations enable clinics to 10x their RPM and CCM programs with no increase in staffing or administrative expenses. The impact on operational efficiencies, patient care, and ROI are unmatched.” Outcome – Scaling Access to Care via ADDI and Addison Care ECG’s telehealth products – ProHealth and Addison Care – enable Capstone to provide continual care to patients outside the physician office. This is critically important to patients living in rural Alaska where the distance to primary care physicians can be multiple hours and access to emergency care is signiﬁcantly limited. ECG’s RPM solutions – which incorporate 24/7/365 physician -on-demand, emergency response, and care coordination oversight – have caught escalating health issues to reduce ER visits and hospitalizations. Scaling the program was capped due to the cost and availability of staff to manage the program. Capstone anticipates a 10x growth in RPM and CCM services given the beneﬁts of the direct integration into the athenaOne EHR . These beneﬁts include: 1/workﬂow optimization remaining in a single dashboard, 2/in -EHR alerts of vitals outside threshold for immediate response by clinical staff, 3/service utilization tracking with automated claim eligibility notiﬁcation, and 4/automation of billing for telehealth services to streamline revenue cycle management. The structure of ECG’s cloud -based platform -as-a-service, ADDI, enabled this seamless EHR integration. ADDI, which has twice pass ed AWS’ rigorous foundational technical review (FTR) , is available on AWS Marketplace. 