Electronic Caregiver Delivering AI Driven Continuous Connected Care to Optimize Health &Wellness forAll It’s all about CARE 
•ECG’s mission is to prolong aging- in-place and independent living while improving quality of life, healthcare delivery, and outcomes for people with chronic illness, and to maximize value for our clients and shareholders. •ECG is perfectly aligned to address the challenges from provider shortages, increased population of seniors, and a global pandemic of chronic disease. •ECG’s use of generative AI transforms patient engagement while delivering significant operational efficiencies . “By2030, every modern home in theworld willhave a primary care interface … andthiswillbe Addison ” ECG’s Vision: Leverage AI, Ambient Sensing, & Engagement to Provide Curated, Actionable Insights to Care Providers to Improve Outcomes
ECG Overview: Product, Services, & Solutions ECG’s patient engagement, vertical integration, data analytic capacity, and open platform create value at every point in the healthcare ecosystem. The pandemic catalyzed remote patient monitoring (RPM ), chronic care management (CCM ), driving demand for comprehensive, hybrid- care solutions . While the current focus is on aging & infirmed patients, the market is evolving to include wellness, health maintenance, and addressing social determinants of health .•ECG is a top telehealth company to know https://www.beckershospitalreview.com/lists/297 - telehealth -companies -to-know -2024.html •ECG #3 in Top 10 telehealth companies https://healthcare- digital.com/telehealth -and- covid - 19/top -10-telehealth -companies -supporting -users- post -covid -19 
Meet AddisAddison: ECG’s Generative AI -powered Virtual Caregiver Meet Addison Prevent Social Isolation and Loneliness Provide 24/7 Physician -on-Demand & Emergency Response Services Deliver NIH -funded Falls Risk Reduction Program Receive Support from Multilingual US-based Care Coordinators Monitor Activities of Daily Living to Enhance Independence & Vitality Enjoy Games, Puzzles, & Let’s Chat Conversations (ChatGPT mode)
Automated Daily Data Information (ADDI) System : ECG’s proprietary cloud- based PaaS built as an open- platform designed for integrations with EHRs, devices, and complementary service providers . Vertical Integration: ECG’s 60+ person Clinical Triage team provides turnkey support from onboarding and enrollment to continuous, coordinated care oversight. High Patient Engagement: ECG’s 15 years of patient- engagement experience –coupled with innovations such as Addison – achieves unmatched adherence to care plans, medications, & health management tasks . ½ BILLION DATA INVOCATIONS YEARLY300K+ PATIENT SERVICES60K CONNECTED DEVICESECG’s Competitive Edge: Platform & People as a Service (PaaS) 
Amazon – Data modernization initiative; generative AI initiative for conversational Addison; Go-To-Market support through Amazon Web Services Marketplace. Google – Contact center AI initiative s to develop virtual agents and drive down operating costs; funding discovery for Android build for Addison (Medicare market expansion). Intel – AI support to fast-track productization of NIH project (FAITH module – falls prevention); Go-To-Market support of Addison as a market -ready solution for Intel HLS team. Samsung – Supporting integration with Samsung Galaxy watch and Samsung Health SDK .GTM support for an Addison Everywhere vision across devices from hospital to home. Tech Partnerships: Building a Resilient AI Healthcare Platform
ECG’s Flywheel : Drives Subscriber & Revenue Growth Innovative Products + IP (25 patents) Unmatched Patient Engagement AI-Drive Actionable Data & InsightsExperienced Team of BuildersDeep Customer Relationships ECG’s signed backlog has Total Contract Value (TCV) 2x 2023 revenue Pipeline has TCV of 11x 2023 revenue 