AWS Health Competency – Case Study
National Institutes of Health (NIH), University of Massachusetts-Amherst, and ECG
Collaborate to Reduce Falls through AI, Computer Vision, and Virtual Caregiving.
Overview
Falls are a major cause of injury and death in older adults. Annually, over 25% of Americans aged
65+ experience a fall, resulting in 3 million patients being treated in a hospital for fall related injuries
and thousands of premature deaths. Moreover, the cost of falls to the health care system exceeds
$50 billion annually. Elderly with Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) and Alzheimer’s Disease Related
Dementia (ADRD) have a double to threefold increased risk for the occurrence of falls. Despite the
staggering number of reported falls each year, many go unreported because they don't cause
serious injury or require treatment. Of those reported, most are only identified after the fact often
during an ER visit. Coupling these challenges with the sporadic, in-clinic during the once a year
physical, the true scope of falls remains dramatically underestimated.
As the healthcare system has moved to hybrid models of care with more care being delivered in-
home, the NIH launched an initiative to leverage AI to address major issues impacting older adults.
ECG partnered with U Mass – Amherst to tune algorithms associated with ECG’s FAITH module –
Functional Assessment In The Home – and fast track commercialization of this key tool. Leveraging
the AWS Health Data Accelerator infrastructure, omnichannel sources of data are captured and
analyzed to inform clinicians of the falls risk of patients and direct care at home. A 10% decrease in
falls reduces hospital care by 300,000 individuals and saves the health care system over $5 billion,
annually.
Opportunity: Developing an AI-model for Anytime, Anywhere Falls Risk Assessment
The NIH is the most prestigious healthcare research entity in the country. As care is pushed to the
home, an opportunity emerges to capture a diverse set of data to assess health, identify risk, and
proactively manage care. ECG’s experience with and use of the AWS Health Data Accelerator
enables falls risk to capture not only video data and assessment from a patient’s performance on a
battery of functional assessments, but also real time and historical data on chronic health,
hospitalizations, prior falls, medications, vital signs, sleep patterns, stress, living arrangements,
and other factors impacting risk of falls. While this is a diverse set of clinical and non-clinical data,
research has indicated that these are all contributors to risk of falls. ECG’s FAITH model includes all
of these data inputs. This assessment can be done at any time and at home – fundamentally
changing the model by which this falls risk assessment – and interventions – have been done.
30% of physicians expect to retire in the next decade. The Addison Care FAITH module makes falls-
risk assessments available to every older adult in America without burdening a single clinical
ECG Case Study AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 1

professional. The AI-driven algorithms provide on-edge, on-demand assessment to decrease risk of
falls and proactively inform care professionals of adverse developments. This is how to transform
access to care, improve outcomes, save money, and leverage clinical resources.
Solution – Leveraging AWS for Comprehensive, Scalable Data Capture and Analysis
To identify and incorporate the right data sets for a comprehensive, real-time falls risk assessment,
ECG leveraged the AWS Health Data Accelerator. The AWS Health Data Accelerator offers an out-
of-the-box reference architecture with recommended services and tools to fast-track development
of ECG’s generative-AI based data infrastructure for the work with the NIH. The solution uses
Amazon QuickSights for data analytics, Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) for scalable
and reliable compute infrastructure, and Amazon Simple Storage Solution (Amazon S3) for the
most durable storage in the cloud and industry-leading availability. Given the variable nature of the
use of the FAITH module, the elasticity of AWS enables customers to automatically scale resources
based upon demand, ensuring optimal performance and cost optimization.
Outcome – Expanding Access to Care to Make Falls Risk Assessments Universally Available
Conducting validated, accurate, functional assessments in-the-home is transformative.
Transitioning from an episodic, reactive, and calendar-driven model to a dynamic, flexible, and
proactive model of falls risk assessment represents one of the best uses of applied generative-AI,
computer vision, data analytics, and computer. The scalability of the AWS-based data
infrastructure, coupled with the elasticity of the cost and availability of utilized resources, enables
providers to scale access to falls risk assessments to every connected household across the
country.
ECG Case Study AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 2