AWS Health Competency – Case Study
New Mexico Health Care Authority Supports Independence of Medicaid Clients with Addison
Care+, ECG’s AI-powered Remote Care and Independent Living Solution.
Overview
The New Mexico Health Care Authority (NM HCA) administers Medicaid in the state, providing
health and supportive services to 34% of the population. New Mexico was one of the first states to
adopt a Technology First approach through which technology is deployed to improve the lives and
expand access to support for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Through
the Developmental Disabilities Support Program’s DD Waiver program, eligible residents can
receive up to $5,000 annually towards assistive technology which to sustain independence, provide
companionship, improve health, and provide employment opportunities.
Opportunity: Increase Engagement & Enhance Quality of Life Via Technology
Historically, the developmentally disabled population between the ages of 18 to 64 have struggled
to obtain resources to provide support and remain independent during adulthood. Innovative policy
makers and Medicaid program officers have realized the power of technology to augment care
management staff and backfill for staffing shortage while also providing 24/7/365 support to
Medicaid recipients. Through the remote personal support technology budget, technology can be
deployed to increase engagement with clients and enhance quality of life. Such technology can
also be used to assess the activity, health and wellness of clients, provide reminders for vital sign
capture and medications, schedule Rideshare and other services, and provide companionship.
Overall, effective technology allows social workers to work at the top of their licenses, maximizing
their time with clients, as the technology handles much of the undifferentiated heavy lifting around
activity monitoring, health assessments, and daily okayness checks. Addison Care is ECG’s
industry-leading remote care solution which is provided to New Mexico Health Care Authority
clients. Through Addison, DD Waiver program clients are receiving world-class support, in the
language of their choice, for the products and services they select. The customization of the avatar,
environment, language, holidays, and pets is which results in a 140%+ daily utilization of Addison
vs. an industry average of 6% for mobile health apps and 35% for bespoken remote care support
solutions.
Solution – Leveraging ECG’s ADDI Platform, Built on AWS for World-Class Privacy, Security,
and Redundancy.
ECG Case Study AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 1

The brains behind all of ECG’s products and services is ADDI - the company’s cloud-based
platform-as-a-service PaaS) – which is built on AWS. ADDI uses over twenty Amazon services to
power the virtual avatar caregiver, Addison, as well as to provide intelligence to the data
infrastructure. Services utilized include Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Amazon
Simple Storage Solution (Amazon S3), Amazon Cognito, AWS Step Functions, Amazon RDS Primary,
AWS ECS Fargate, AWS Lambda, and Amazon QuickSights for data analysis and reporting. On the
Addison side, AWS Polly is utilized to enable voice and captions, AWS Rekognition for face
verification to protect PHI, and Amazon Bedrock is utilized as part of the “Let’s Chat” feature of
Addison.
Together, these services provide engaging on-device experience for users and industry-leading
privacy, security, and redundancy – without latency – on the backend. The investment that ECG
made to create an industry-leading solution which is HIPAA compliant, protects PHI and PII, and is
built to scale to 100 million users highly differentiates the company from other telehealth and
remote care providers serving Medicaid agencies, and is why the Addison Care+ solution is the
fastest growing product offering amongst all DD Waiver offerings.
Outcome – Expanding Access to Care Via ECG’s Addison Care+ Solution
Offering Addison Care+ to the DD Waiver clients is transformative. These clients, often overlooked,
are now at the front-end of adopting innovative, AI-driven solutions which are fun, engaging, and
supportive – all while providing 24/7/365 access to physician-on-demand, emergency response,
and client support services. Moreover, the independence of the DD population using these services
has increased significantly as loneliness, social isolation, stigmatization, and unchecked health
needs are now addressed real-time. For the NM HCA, the reliability of ECG’s solutions – powered by
AWS – enable the agency to optimize staffing while decreasing the administrative burden of
managing client caseloads. For case managers, the churn of working with clients has significantly
reduced for those using ECG technologies. In an environment whereby 50% client churn per year is
norm, there has been less than a 10% churn with ECG-supported clients for the past year. Addison
Care by ECG, powered by AWS, is demonstrating how to make a sustained impact in Technology
First approach to managing Medicaid. ECG is an authorized Medicaid service provider in 11 states.
ECG Case Study AWS Healthcare Competency pg. 2