 In the HTI-5 proposed rule, ASTP proposes to revise the Decision Support Interventions (DSI) certification criterion so that it would “fully remove” the AI “model card” requirements. Today, developers of certified health IT that include predictive DSIs (including AI-based tools) must provide detailed source attribute information (often described as an AI “model card”), such as intended use, target population/users, known risks, training data/input characteristics, and external validation processes. HTI-5 would remove that disclosure requirement.

I believe harm will come to patients if AI were used without any transparency. I want to promote the viewpoint that the agency should retain the current decision support interventions (DSI) criterion. The criterion provides users with information on DSI performance and quality. ASTP/ONC proposes several revisions to the DSI certification criteria, to be effective as of the date of the final rule. Notably, the agency proposes to remove the “AI model card” requirements related to source attributes, access and modification, as well as requirements to manage risks related to the development and deployment of predictive DSIs. The agency asserts that there is no publicly available evidence that transparency requirements have led to positive impacts on patient care, such as removing deficient or untested algorithms or testing a deployed algorithm on local data.

I appreciate that the agency is attempting to identify criteria that may be of limited value, but this criterion is one of the few examples of transparency standards providing information on AI to help inform procurement and implementation of tools. One of the primary barriers to AI adoption has been the “black box” nature of algorithms. This criterion provides information on how a predictive or generative AI application was designed, developed, tested, evaluated and should be used. These data are critical to foster trust in AI tools and ensure patient safety.

Hospital associations, clinical informatics organizations, patient safety advocates, cybersecurity-focused stakeholders, and some academic groups are the stakeholders who might align with this viewpoint. 

The campaign must encourage the retention of the DSI criteria, by being critical of the adoption of AI without proper transparency and guardrails, and the right of consumers to know who (or what) is making high-stakes health recommendations. Personal and organizational stories must be included, but they must be credible, ring true. Few DSI are actually being made today using AI, so this is more about the potential future with fear, uncertainty and doubt being major elements. 