CRA and CCC Response to Request for Information on
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part
of Clinical Care
Authors: Kevin Butler (University of Florida), Rayid Ghani (Carnegie Mellon University), Rachel
Greenstadt (New York University), Ming C. Lin (University of Maryland), Manish Parashar
(University of Utah), Blaine Reeder (University of Missouri), Tammy Toscos (Parkview Health),
Cathy Wu (University of Delaware), and Haley Griffin (CRA/CCC).
This response is prepared by the Computing Research Association (CRA), assisted by the
Computing Community Consortium (CCC) and CRA-Industry (CRA-I). CRA is an association of
over 270 North American computing research organizations, both academic and industrial, and
partners from six professional computing societies.
The mission of CCC, a CRA subcommittee, is to enable the pursuit of innovative, high-impact
computing research that aligns with pressing national and global challenges.
The mission of CRA-I, a CRA subcommittee, is to convene industry partners on computing
research topics of mutual interest and connect them with CRA’s academic and government
constituents for mutual benefit and improved societal outcomes.
Please note any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this
material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the authors’
affiliations, or of the National Science Foundation, which funds the CCC.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its
adoption and use in clinical care?
There is a notable public reluctance in the U.S. to adopt AI for health-related outcomes
(Patients’ Trust in Health Systems to Use Artificial Intelligence), stemming from the high stakes
and inherent privacy associated with clinical wellness. It is crucial that R&D resources are
devoted to ensuring that the American people feel like their data, diagnosis, and care are
trustworthy and secure in the age of AI.
Below is a list of some of the barriers to private sector innovation in this area:
● Inadequate access to large-scale, relevant, and useful data.
● Insufficient input and buy-in from clinical practitioners and organizational leadership.

● Disproportionate focus on technical implementation (AI models, metrics, etc.) and
efficiency over collaborative, clinical outcome-driven design and evaluation.
● Underfunded research infrastructure and a lack of access to compliant computer/storage
environments and systemic support.
3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise novel
legal and implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability
structures (e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel
legal and implementation issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to help
address them?
There is significant ambiguity in the existing definitions of medical devices (e.g., FDA) in the age
of AI, and what organizations are covered under HIPAA. This is especially concerning due to the
private patient medical data that is oftentimes being shared. While the results that AI models
produce are likely to improve if they are trained on more data, there are not currently strong
assurances that patient data can remain private and secure if it is provided to a model, either in
training, fine-tuning, or with a prompt at inference time. Here are a few implementation
applications and related research questions:
● Recording devices collecting patient-clinical interactions, and AI generating post-visit
summaries (how is the data being stored? What is the data being used for in the future?
How can informed consent be ensured?)
● Software non-medical devices (what organizations are covered under HIPAA? When
does software become a medical device?)
● Providing AI models with non-clinical data (how can we prevent models from sharing
private data across different patients?)
● Reliability and integrity of AI-generated recommendations (How can providers evaluate
and monitor systems that may hallucinate, produce over-confident outputs, or degrade
over time? What validation and auditing standards are needed for systems used in
clinical workflows?)
● The use of physical non-medical devices (How do robots fit into the clinical care
environment? How can privacy and security be ensured?)
4. For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods (pre- and
post-deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and human-centered
evaluation methods for clinical care? Should HHS further support these processes? If so,
which mechanisms would be most impactful (e.g., contracts, grants, cooperative
agreements, and/or prize competitions)?
HHS should further support AI evaluation methods for non-medical devices. In particular, there
is a need for usability and acceptability studies at all stages from conceptualization, design,
iterative testing, lab and field tests, translation to real-world settings, and implementation. There
is also a need for participatory design from the very beginning of a project that includes robust

discussions with direct users and stakeholders (see Generative AI-Derived Information About
Opioid Use Disorder Treatment During Pregnancy: An Exploratory Evaluation of GPT-4's
Steerability for Provision of Trustworthy Person-Centered Information for an example of a study
that is examining the trustworthiness of generative AI at a very early research stage). Through
these conversations, researchers can determine the on-the-ground needs for proposed
applications, and decide on goals based on workflows and implementations that will function in
a clinical setting. Standard and operationalized safety evaluation frameworks should also be
implemented to provide guardrails that build trust in generative AI applications (see Health
Consumers' Use and Perceptions of Health Information from Generative Artificial Intelligence
Chatbots: A Scoping Review for more information about distrust in generative AI applications in
healthcare).
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities (e.g., accreditation, certification,
industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in
clinical care?
We encourage HSS to support industry-academia partnerships across AI and clinical care, as
many university researchers have expertise in training and credentialing that the private sector
could greatly benefit from.
We also recommend regulatory reforms that facilitate broader access to anonymized health data
from EHR providers, while simultaneously incentivizing health systems to collaborate with
researchers for better data contextualization (Enabling the AI Revolution in Healthcare).
Grantees of the "America's Seed Fund”, particularly Small Business Innovation Research
(SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR), should receive guidance on
accreditation, certification, industry-driven testing, and credentialing.
How to sustain models in health systems is a very critical area for support and innovation. Peter
Emby at Vanderbilt coined an AI monitoring term "algorithmovigilance" during covid times [see
2021 paper] and now his lab has developed a platform they call VAMOS that "aims to support
systematic and proactive monitoring of AI tools in healthcare organizations. Our findings and
recommendations can support the design of AI monitoring systems to support health systems,
improve quality of care, and ensure patient safety." [see 2025 paper].
6. Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and cost
expectations and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools would have
the greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give new insights on quality, and
help reduce costs?
Positive Deployment Use Cases

AI tools have a lot of potential to enhance the doctor-patient interaction when deployed in a
clinical setting. Below are several examples from a recent study (To Do No Harm — and the
Most Good — with AI in Health Care):
● capture of the recorded patient visit,
● prioritizing and analysis of test and imaging results,
● differential diagnosis,
● plan for therapy and discussion of alternatives,
● instructions for the patient and caregivers,
● appointment scheduling and other administrative functions,
● responses to patient questions at optimal levels of literacy.
Another relevant study (Ambient Artificial Intelligence Scribes and Physician Financial
Productivity) indicates that, “adoption of ambient artificial intelligence (AI) scribes, which
generate clinical documentation from audio recordings and are associated with reduced
documentation time and burnout, is increasing,” and concludes that there is a promising return
on investment when physicians adopt the tools.
Negative Deployment Use Cases
Implementing and using unvalidated models in clinical care is incredibly dangerous for patients.
For example, the widely adopted Epic Sepsis Model that is supposed to predict cases of sepsis
has been shown to not be very accurate (External Validation of a Widely Implemented
Proprietary Sepsis Prediction Model in Hospitalized Patients). Considering that sepsis occurs in
7% of hospitalizations, relying on this model is a potentially deadly misstep.
AI tools are only worthwhile if they are used by the individuals responsible for patient care.
AI-generated trigger alerts in the electronic health record, such as sepsis, are often ignored.
However, if systems are autonomous, and there is no human in the loop, AI tools that have not
been validated with local data and maintained over time could result in significant harm to
patients. A recent survey showed that only 44% of hospitals reported using local data for model
validation (Current Use And Evaluation Of Artificial Intelligence And Predictive Models In US
Hospitals). This study also showed that models built in house, vs. simply adopted by a vendor,
were more likely to use local data for validation. However, such in house built systems typically
happen at health systems that are better resourced. What is needed is more incentives and
resources allocated for successful hyperlocal implementation and maintenance of predictive
models.
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care organizations
have the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the primary
administrative hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
Hospital administrators have significant influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care, and their
main concern is the hospital budget. They are incentivized to support AI if there is a return on
investment in both profit and improved patient outcomes.

A significant challenge to the implementation of AI technology is that the core users (practicing
physicians, nurses, etc.) are oftentimes not sufficiently consulted on what would best support
their work with patients.
Julia Adler-Milstein PhD, Chief of Clinical Informatics & Digital Transformation at the University
of California San Francisco (UCSF), has worked on ways to support executives and providers
that are making decisions about AI use in healthcare. This is important work due to the pressure
on health systems to adopt AI for cost savings. Julia's team has worked with UCSF Health to
build the "Impact Monitoring Platform for AI in Clinical Care (IMPACC)," which seeks to "bridge
the gap between the rapid evolution of AI technologies used by clinicians and the essential need
for robust, ongoing assessment of their efficacy, safety, and equity" (First Continuous
AI-monitoring Platform in Clinical Care). This is an important model for health systems to
consider adopting for safe and effective use of AI in healthcare.
8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and
accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types,
data standards, and benchmarking tools.
There is a significant need for better/compliant infrastructure (example: NAIRR-Secure) and
accessibility to data sources at the intersection of AI and clinical care. We recommend
incentivizing the interoperability of electronic health records (EHR) to allow for data exchange,
building on the widely used Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) system. This
would result in more open-source data, which is needed for benchmarking tools. Many existing
regulations are in place to encourage EHR vendors to share their data through these systems,
but there is a need for additional strategies to enforce compliance.
As new devices are developed, a consistent data format needs to be implemented and enforced
so that medical and non-medical devices that are applied to the clinical care setting can
communicate with each other. However, existing devices are not going to be discontinued
overnight, so new tools need to be developed to help convert standards and promote
interoperability. A mapping exercise of devices and tools would be very helpful.
Interoperability typically focuses on clinical data, but social determinants of health — which
account for 80 percent of health outcomes — must also be considered (Enabling the AI
Revolution in Healthcare). Support for privacy-preserving cryptography—especially to enable
secure and private machine learning and unlearning—is essential for advancing safe public
health data analysis (Enabling the AI Revolution in Healthcare).
9. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see addressed
by the adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do patients and
caregivers have related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical care?

At the end of the day, patients and their caregivers want to know what is going to happen to
them, and what they can do about it. Researchers should work towards developing AI tools that
can answer these two important questions.
Building on our response to question 1, the majority of Americans do not trust the use of AI in
their healthcare. They are concerned about the security of their data, AI hallucinations, model
poisoning, etc. It is incredibly important that AI and clinical care researchers partner with
communications and public health professionals to share the steps being taken to ensure that
the AI helping to inform health decisions is safe, accurate, and trustworthy. Without these steps
in place, individuals could lose trust in AI and, by extension, in the healthcare infrastructure as a
whole, leading to lower engagement and, consequently, worse health outcomes.
Hospitals and care facilities in rural communities often do not have as many resources to
support patient care as those in urban areas, and in the AI era the gap between areas with
access to AI infrastructure and without is becoming increasingly difficult to overcome. Additional
resources should be devoted to supporting clinical care in states included in the Established
Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) and Institutional Development Award
(IDeA) programs.
As AI is being developed for the clinical care setting, it should support interactions between
clinicians and patients/caregivers, as well as between healthcare portals and
patients/caregivers. Today, a lot of interactions are not person-person. Test results, diagnoses,
and treatment recommendations are oftentimes communicated through a portal, which can be
frustrating and cryptic for patients/caregivers. The portals should be personalized based on the
needs, language and cultural background
10. Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate the
adoption of AI as part of clinical care?
HHS should prioritize (1) AI-Driven Clinical Decision Support, (2) Human-AI Collaboration, and
(3) Development and Implementation Trajectory Evaluation Frameworks.
AI-Driven Clinical Decision Support
New modeling methods need to be developed that are end to end, throughout the entire
workflow of clinical care, and include reasoning and inference. Benchmarks and trials need to
be developed.
Human-AI Collaboration
Clinicians need to be a key stakeholder in any AI application (especially embodied AI) to the
clinical care sector, as they are the ones using it to impact patient health. Many other humans
also need to be in the loop, including radiologists, patients, and caregivers.

Development and Implementation Trajectory Evaluation Frameworks
There is a need for in-context evaluation of the methods and systems impacted by AI use. The
process should evaluate not only trustworthiness, but correctness. If the goal is for AI to
generate new assistance/knowledge for diagnostic advice, the information produced has to be
accurate, relevant, and understandable.
a. Are there published findings about the impact of adopted AI tools and their use in
clinical care?
Yes, below is a list of relevant published findings we recommend:
● State of Clinical AI Report 2026 - ARISE Network (An annual synthesis of the most
significant developments, evidence, and emerging challenges in clinical AI): Peter G.
Brodeur, Ethan Goh, Emily Tat, Liam McCoy, David Wu, Priyank Jain, Rebecca Handler,
Jason Hom, Laura Zwaan, Vishnu Ravi, Brian Han, Kevin Schulman, Kathleen Lacar,
Kameron Black, Adrian Haimovich, Eric Horvitz, Adam Rodman, Jonathan H. Chen
“State of Clinical AI 2026,” ARISE Network, January 2026.
● AI-CARING NSF AI Institute has developed a number of AI tools for use in the clinical
context particularly as they relate to mild cognitive impairment and older adults, and
published a wide range of articles on the topic.
● A recent survey (2025) offers a summary of Current Use And Evaluation Of Artificial
Intelligence And Predictive Models In US Hospitals
b. How does the literature approach the costs, benefits, and transfers of using AI as part
of clinical care?
In a recent secondary analysis of the 2023 American Hospital Association Annual Survey
Information Technology, Nong et al. identified how AI and predictive models are currently being
implemented in healthcare organizations. The authors found that organizations “might not
robustly evaluate AI because of cost, underestimation of potential negative impacts, barriers to
governance including technical capacity, a lack of financial incentives, or the perception that
regulation does not require it. If hospitals are not performing robust evaluation, further policy
intervention will likely be necessary” (Current Use And Evaluation Of Artificial Intelligence And
Predictive Models In US Hospitals).
In a discussion paper by Adler-Milstein et al, the authors discuss barriers and facilitators of
clinical adoption of AI for medical diagnosis. They point out that “AI diagnostic decision support
(AI-DDS) tools could reduce the cognitive burden on providers, mitigate burnout, and further
enhance care quality.” The authors also point out the criticality of understanding human
adoption. Even the best model will not be used for good if implementation details foundational
for successful adoption are not considered - key factors outlined in the paper are 1) reason to
use, 2) means to use, 3) method to use, and 4) desire to use (Meeting the Moment: Addressing
Barriers and Facilitating Clinical Adoption of Artificial Intelligence in Medical Diagnosis).