To: Department of Health and Human Services
From: PictorLabs
Date: Jan 20, 2026
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as part of
Clinical Care [RIN 0955-AA13]
Contributors: Rochelle Wagner PhD (Director), James Kelley MD, PhD (Chief Medical Officer), Yair
Rivenson PhD (Chief Executive Officer)
Contact: Rochelle Wagner PhD, Director Medical Affairs
Pictor Labs is a virtual staining company advocating strongly for digital pathology adoption through
Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology that delivers results in minutes while preserving tissue for
additional and often required comprehensive analyses. We applaud the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) on its initiative to learn more about the impact of AI in healthcare and the
influence of reimbursement and payment policy on its access to clinical care.
AI has quickly evolved to allow for the development of critical tools in healthcare. Of importance to
our company, AI increases the efficiency, and thus improves, the normal laboratory workflow of
staining histological slides for medical assessment. These tissues can be virtually stained with
routine biomedical stains (e.g., H&E), special tissue stains such as Masson’s Trichrome, or
immunohistochemical stains which selectively identify a single molecule of interest.
This beginning step in the analysis of tissue biopsies/needle aspirations is critical for the ultimate
diagnosis and/or decision to have additional stains performed as part of a differential or for confirming
diagnosis, and yet becomes a bottleneck to all subsequent procedures due to the time involved for
irreversible chemical staining. PictorLabs believes that the HHS should prioritize the first pivotal
steps that many healthcare decisions rely upon. Tissue staining is one such primary step on
which the pathologist diagnosis depends, and a fundamental step that AI processes can make
more time-effective for the patient by circumventing delays in diagnosis. Importantly, making
this primary step available to laboratories and ultimately physicians can also reduce disparities in
healthcare access and equity for patients, as the availability of pathology laboratories capable of a
myriad of staining may be functionally or locally limited, or financially prohibitive.
There are also added benefits for urging AI enabled healthcare technology in the assertion of
American autonomy. Digital staining, as an example, can reduce economic dependence on other
countries. Currently, laboratories in the US depend on obtaining traditional staining chemicals from
other countries, such as China and India. Finished kits may be bottled in the US/EU, but upstream
dyes/intermediates frequently originate abroad—so shocks in those supply chains quickly reach and
affect US labs logistically with procuring the stains as well as financially with altered pricing.

Therefore, the ability of US laboratories to confidently maintain the ability to virtually stain and keep
their workflow moving is a positive alternative to the dependence on other supply chains.
In order to expedite the advancement of AI in healthcare, we would seek assistance from HHS in
certain areas that include:
❖ A defined and consistent pathway to reimbursement that is flexible for many
scenarios. Current approaches for coding and coverage determination move more
slowly than the advancement of technology, and thus hampers confidence in
reimbursement that is necessary for bringing innovation to market
❖ Changing the inertia of the healthcare system to utilize AI tools to increase efficiency
and output of healthcare staff through education on new technologies
Current avenues for reimbursement, such as the New Technology Add-on Payment (NTAP), exist
but are technology-specific and involve a complex approval process. Potential alternatives include a
reimbursement framework that proposes an analytical pathway, similar to the one successfully
employed for AI-driven diabetic retinal exams (see https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35681002/). While
meritorious, it too involves extensive analysis for each and every step that exists to utilize the
technique and cannot be incorporated quickly enough to incentivize. Existing legislation, such as
the Health Tech Investment Act (S. 1399), aims to assign Advanced Health Behavior Services
(AHBS) to a new technology ambulatory payment classification (APC). This legislation has garnered
support from AdvaMed, the representative body for the medical biotechnology sector (see
https://www.advamed.org/industry-updates/news/advamed-applauds-house-introduction-of-the-health-tech-investment-
act/). Currently, this legislation remains waiting for formal discussion.
A simple first step of establishing identical reimbursement for current staining procedures (e.g.,
CLIA fees) would greatly attenuate hesitancy by a pathology laboratory to adopt AI-driven
technology. If a stained slide is reimbursed, whether or not that is accomplished by approved AI or
chemical processes should be unimportant. Both AI and traditional staining require an investment
of time and resources - only for AI staining the time expenditure is upfront in development and
validation. As such, it is our opinion the stain should be reimbursed equally. But there is also an
important overlooked benefit from virtual staining in that virtual stains require only a single tissue
slice and thus a significant amount of biopsy tissue is retained. This tissue retention could be a
critical issue for patients, as additional molecular tests are frequently needed for diagnosis
confirmation and therapy guidance. Tissue retention also impacts care, as several common biopsy
locations (e.g., breast, melanoma, colorectal, kidney, lung, thyroid) are frequently inadequate and
commonly trigger repeat sampling and follow-up. Repeat biopsies are a real, recurring source of
healthcare cost and patient burden. If a virtually stained slide circumvents a re-biopsy, significant
cost is saved, not to mention sparing the patient another invasive procedure, delays, frustration, and
anxiety. Therefore, prioritizing this primary staining step ensures that the benefits of digital staining
will be multifactorial, more efficient, and not restricted to a single demographic or therapeutic area.

Education presents another critical challenge for AI-based companies. The United States and
Canadian Academy of Pathology (USCAP) and the Digital Pathology Association (DPA) have
both acknowledged the potential of this technology and the necessity for its advancement.
Both societies currently set a compelling example through collaboration with AI and digital
pathology companies, thereby demonstrating a commitment to adopting cutting-edge
technology that enhances the quality and speed of diagnostics. For many years, the DPA has
worked with the FDA to help secure clearances for whole slide imaging equipment, and thus
has created a more productive workplace for pathologists and healthcare institutions as well as
enhancing patient care. Thus, medical education towards AI digital pathology is timely,
recognized, supported by USCAP and DPA, and provides a successful example of regulating
bodies co-operating with such societies for continued education and advancement of AI efforts.
Subsequent intensive interaction for HHS and USCAP/DPA here is suggested.
A prevalent viewpoint suggests that a central source of reluctance to utilize novel AI technology
stems from "the black box nature of AI" (see https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/40140300/;
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37093631/). Governing bodies can also provide significant assistance in the
adoption of new technology. Support for medical education can be accomplished by regulating
bodies through supporting CME, the inclusion of modern technology use for hospital accreditation,
and the establishment of required insurance coverage for AI-dependent processes that aligns
effectively with reimbursement strategies could ensure more rapid clinical decisions impacting patient
care, as well as ensure the healthcare system stays current with important technological progress.
In summary, HHS should prioritize foundational and simple healthcare steps such as virtual
histopathological staining for AI-driven advancement . The adoption, reimbursement, and acceptance
of AI-driven processes is critical to the continued successes our healthcare system brings to patient
care. While we highlight policy needs related to our specific business, those principles are applicable
across all healthcare companies innovating with AI. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this
important area of attention.