 Department of Health and Human Services Request for Inform ation; Health Technology Ecosystem RFI CMS-0042-NC Prepared By: Healthy Together Jared Allgood, CEO 650-218-8371 jallgood@healthytogether.io June 16, 2025 Twenty Labs, LLC dba Healthy Together 382 NE 191st Street, PM B 42782 M iam i, FL 33179 
 Executive Sum m ary Healthy Together is pleased to respond to the Departm ent of Health and Hum an Services Request for Inform ation for a Health Technology Ecosystem . Healthy Together’s m ission is to m ake our governm ent the best-run organization in the world. W e deploy cloud-native Software as a Service (SaaS) solutions and system s that deliver outcom es for our governm ent partners. W e partner with our clients to understand key objectives and agency goals, rapidly conﬁgure and deploy bespoke solutions, and m anage system s and program s to ensure efﬁcacy and efﬁciency. These values drive the Healthy Together team to innovate often, fully understand the user’s journey and personas, build trust, and elevate the level of service to its stakeholders. Healthy Together integrates services such as eligibility determ ination, enrollm ent, recertiﬁcation, reporting, data m anagem ent and deduplication, and com m unication within a single, user-friendly suite of applications, ensuring a cohesive and efﬁcient experience for residents and adm inistrators alike. Legacy system s and antiquated workﬂows result in extrem e inefﬁciencies, em ployee burnout and frustration, and residents who have little transparency into their speciﬁc cases. Legacy system s suffer from a lack of data integration, scalability, autom ation, and outdated reporting. Healthy Together is supporting states nationwide to provide case m anagem ent system s, integrated com m unication tools, autom ated and AI-agentic workﬂows, im proved processes, robust reporting, and m any other features for staff, adm inistrators, and residents. Since 2020, Healthy Together has been able to im pact m illions of staff and residents who have utilized the platform , with over 220,000 providing reviews, averaging a 98% overall satisfaction rating, validating the im portance of user-friendly navigation, design, features, functionality, and experience. Healthy Together provides a full range of ﬂexible capabilities, enabling states and federal agencies to have a true, end-to-end solution for staff, providers, and residents, including: ● An interoperable SaaS platform , built on Polycore, that integrates and scales across networks ● Adaptable m odules that bring new workﬂows to existing processes and leverage AI autom ation, digital services, and integration to provide the best user experience ● Analytics capabilities to drive real-tim e reporting, convenient data exports, and insights available via web, m obile web, or m obile application ● Flexible m odes of accessibility via web, m obile web, and m obile app developm ent and support 2 
 Healthy Together has delivered proven and battle-tested solutions to state agencies at scale. Healthy Together has been deployed to support CM S and FNS program s in Florida, M issouri, M ichigan, Oklahom a, M aryland, Virginia, Alaska, M ontana, Chickasaw Nation, Choctaw Nation, and the Departm ent of Veterans Affairs, which have taken advantage of a com bination of different m odules of the Healthy Together platform . Healthy Together solves som e of the nation’s m ost com plex challenges within health and hum an services. The result of Healthy Together’s dedication and passion to solving these com plex challenges through a m odular and ﬂexible platform results is a swift delivery of user-focused technology and a future-facing strategy to serve the people, and an efﬁcient workﬂow for staff, providers, and residents to drive safer and healthier outcom es. Healthy Together has been adopted by m illions of users and has becom e one of the m ost reviewed and liked applications in the Health space, with over 220,000 reviews in the app stores and an average 4.9 out of 5 stars rating. This shows users’ overwhelm ing approval, adoption and engagem ent of the Healthy Together software. 3 
 Governm ent System s Built on Polycore The Healthy Together solution is engineered with m odern design, technology, and capabilities, breaking from legacy constraints. The system’s architecture m odel is purpose-built for change; to be easy and ﬂexible and able integrate changes and to be sim ple to conﬁgure with unparalleled speed. The graphic below highlights the Healthy Together m odel which can enable and em power M edicare, state M edicaid program s, and other HHS program s with a com prehensive and integrated set of capabilities. These range from the highly ﬂexible foundation/platform layer to the outcom es/perform ance-based level of transparency and control at the disposal of CM S. This approach solves problem s and rem oves obstacles for States, residents, providers, and service partners. Polycore is based on a new and innovative technology design, purpose-built for change. Our Polycore platform differentiates itself from legacy system s in the following ways: ● The Polycore Platform Architecture – purpose-built for change, highly elastic. ○ Polymorphic Data Infrastructure com ponents for data, business rules, software code, BRE, and workﬂows, etc, are designed to be ﬂexible, not hard-coded ○ “API First” - establishes a robust, standardized fram ework that stream lines data exchange and enables seam less system integrations, ultim ately accelerating innovation and reducing deploym ent com plexities ○ Uniﬁed Data Ingestion & Governance (UDIG) Engine - m asters data exchange and m anagem ent. Creates relationships to leverage preexisting data from other State program system s to drive QC validations and stream line workﬂows ○ Composable SaaS – blends standard upgrade and release plan cycles with highly ﬂexible client-driven ad-hoc change requests, using no-code/low-code system updates to deploy and test changes 4 
 ○ Integrated & AI-powered Business Rules Engine (BRE) & Automated Workﬂow (AWF) – The com bination of these three integrated com ponents is designed to m anage program instructions and requirem ents to seam lessly autom ate and optim ize workﬂow At a base layer, we see that the design of Polycore integrates com ponents with innovative capabilities that transform how system s and software are deployed, m aintained, and used to foster program success. For Stakeholders and Program m anagem ent, the following com ponents help com plem ent the solution. ● Responsive Design / Native Mobile App ○ Can be used without an internet connection; No waiting for static content (im ages and text) to be downloaded from the web ○ Optim ized to work on any device or Operating System (i.e., iOS, Android, Google etc.) ○ Hum an-centered design drives a superior and m agniﬁcent user experience ○ M ulito-Language - intelligent applications launch with user-preferred language proﬁle ● Program Reporting & Analytics ○ Event-based tracking supports internal data collection out of the box ○ Collects and reports on user-level transactions as well as different types of data across m ultiple providers and program types ○ Role-based security for easy access to providers and evaluators ○ Robust reporting tools for generating reports, program evaluation, and perform ance m anagem ent reports ● System Implementations & Change Requests ○ Form erly known as DDIs, Healthy Together redeﬁnes the process and tim elines to: Install, Conﬁgure and Optim ize (ICO) our solution. This m eans tim e to deploy is cut m aterially from years down to m onths ○ Testing that required m any, m any m onths and team s of people from CDSS and Vendors to com plete, is m assively reduced which saves signiﬁcant tim e and m oney 5 
 Beneﬁts of Our Unique Approach The Healthy Together solution provides world world-class m em ber experience to the governm ent's m ost crucial program s. Our state-of-the-art solution provides a platform that fundam entally provides greater ﬂexibility, conﬁgurability, and scalability than other m arket options. The Healthy Together solution enables agencies to address im m ediate challenges related to m em ber engagem ent and program adm inistration, while still being able to continue current m odernization projects without disruption. The beneﬁts of our solution to augm ent legacy system s are trem endous and quickly im prove program success. W hy we are unique: ● The Polycore Platform Architecture – purpose-built for change, designed to be dynam ically ﬂexible. ○ Highly Elastic Operating System - data relationships, new or adjusted business rules, new functionality or workﬂow changes, are m ore easily applied to the system s via no-code or low-code software updates ○ Composable SaaS – is faster to im plem ent updates and m aintains a m ore current environm ent for technology, policy requirem ents and workﬂows ○ System Changes - are m ore transparent and less invasive; m eaning the level of effort and tim e to com plete testing and UAT is reduced ● Advanced Automation – Agentic AI creates a sm art workﬂow m anagem ent and autom ated system . ○ It learns and evolves over tim e, tailors’ best practices for the program and user ○ Helps design new rules and changes to optim ize perform ance and outcom es ● Speed of Change – Unprecedented speed to deploy or change system s in weeks/m onths, not years. The architecture m odel sim pliﬁes system design and m aintenance; leverages the elasticity of software, data and com ponents; drives down effort, and m aterially lowers risks and costs ● Stakeholder Impact – Through M obile and W eb based system s, stakeholder journeys are now m ore autom ated, intuitive, sim pler and efﬁcient. ○ Functionality not only autom ates m ost workﬂow steps but adjusts and tailors steps and activities to the individual type of user ○ This ﬂexibility helps elim inate points of conﬂict, system constraints, and focuses on Stakeholder expectations ● Flexibility, Scale & Elasticity - the Healthy Together platform was intended to leverage, incorporate and scale to other HHS program s. This m eans one system to support the alignm ent and tech efﬁciencies from the core platform , driving perform ance optim ization while still enabling each program to rem ain or operate with autonom ous rules and service proﬁles. 6 
 Recom m endations For Im pact Increasing Access to Care Providers face im m ediate barriers to policy innovations and cost-cutting in M edicaid and M edicare due to outdated, consultant-built software and data system s. Providers, especially those in rural areas, ﬁnd it difﬁcult to bridge the gap between outdated processes and m odern digital standards. Digital health products like the Healthy Together solution provide a m odernized approach that signiﬁcantly reduces the tim e, cost, and resources that are currently required by replacing labor-intensive m anual processes. One of our clients reported that a single new enrollm ent can require up to 800 keyboard clicks using their existing M edicaid system . Patients are forced to wait in line to m eet with a M edicaid adm inistrator in order to subm it a beneﬁt application. Once subm itted, applicants wait days or weeks to be enrolled in program s. Healthy Together system s are purpose-built to autom ate m anual processes, elim inate bottle-necks, and allow beneﬁt applicants to apply from the com fort of their hom es, which saves providers tim e, m oney, and resources. 7 
 Improving Healthcare Outcomes Healthy Together recom m ends the following to im prove healthcare outcom es: 1. As state and territory agencies are already im plem enting Integrated Eligibility & Enrollm ent with other HHS and FNS program s, CM S should seek OM B A-87 waivers for any agency that wishes to integrate m ultiple program s into the state-run M edicaid system . The OM B A-87 waiver will reduce adm inistrative and accounting challenges by allowing M edicaid agencies to cover the cost for sm aller program s utilizing the IE&E system without seeking reim bursem ent from those program s, expediting the m odernization process. 2. Cease funding Design, Develop & Im plem ent (DD&I) m odels of legacy-style system s that cannot be m odernized to the new standards: m odularity, cloud-native, com posable SaaS, event-based tracking, and polym orphic data m odels. 3. Provide state and territory agencies with a “Turbo-Tax” style system to facilitate and autom ate Advance Planning Docum ent (APD) creation. Create a case m anagem ent system that uses M L and AI to support CM S adm inistrators in the APD review and approval process. Re-vam p the T-M SIS reporting process by requiring M M IS/M ES to utilize event-based tracking. T-M SIS reporting is a key bottleneck for identifying opportunities to im prove health outcom es and ﬁnding fraud. T-M SIS data subm itted by state agencies is often incom plete, inaccurate, and not real-tim e. Som e state agencies have not autom ated T-M SIS report creation, creating a signiﬁcant burden on adm inistrators to generate and transm it reports. By requiring event-based tracking in Claim s System s, CM S can future-proof the T-M SIS system by ensuring that all data is collected and ready for transm ission and analysis at all tim es. 4. Create a system for ongoing m anagem ent inform ation system certiﬁcation that uses open APIs, data ﬂows, and interfaces for state and territory agencies to autom atically m aintain certiﬁcation of their Enrollm ent & Eligibility and M edicaid Enterprise System s. State and territory IE&E and M M IS/M ES are required to com ply with ongoing certiﬁcation to receive funding for M &O. This process is cum bersom e, tim e-consum ing, and expensive, and can be autom ated with m odern tools for data extraction, testing and autom ation. This system could be deployed as a standalone CM S system or as part of a CM S-provided “base operating system” which would have certiﬁcation tools and reports pre-conﬁgured. 5. Explore ways these m odern tools can be im plem ented to reduce cost and im prove the efﬁcacy of M edicare and other CM S program s. 8 