 Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Secretary Dr. Mehmet Oz, Administrator Tom Keane, Assistant Secretary and National Coordinator Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Re: [CMS-0042-NC] RIN 0938-AV68: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem Submitted via Regulations.gov Dear Secretary Kennedy, Administrator Oz, and Coordinator Keane, On behalf of the undersigned health systems, we write to comment on the Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem released by HHS, CMS, and ASTP/ONC in May. We appreciate the many thoughtful questions posed in the RFI and for the steps taken by CMS to advance digital health tools, interoperability, and access to data. Our health systems represent some of the largest integrated delivery systems in the nation. Our organizations are at the leading edge of technology transformation, leading the way in patient and provider use of data, the deployment of new digital health tools, the integration of artificial and augmented intelligence, and the use of technology to simplify administrative processes in health care. We are grateful to the Trump Administration for your focus on this critical area in care delivery and are excited to provide feedback on many areas of the RFI. Together with AVIA and Leavitt Partners, we offer these comments in hopes that private sector innovations, when coupled with regulatory streamlining and de-regulatory action, will unlock innovation, accelerate patient engagement, reduce administrative burden, and advance health care delivery. PC-2: Do you have easy access to your own and all your loved ones' health information in one location (for example, in a single patient portal or another software system)? a. If so, what are some examples of benefits it has provided? b. If not, in what contexts or for what workflows would it be most valuable to use one portal or system to access all such health information? c. Were there particular data types, such as x-rays or specific test results, that were unavailable? What are the obstacles to accessing your own or your loved ones' complete 
 health information electronically and using it for managing health conditions or finding the best care (for example, limitations in functionality, user friendliness, or access to basic technology infrastructure)? RESPONSE: The financial aspects of healthcare are inseparable from clinical care decisions. Patients need tools that integrate both clinical and financial information to make appropriate choices. Understanding where patients are in their deductible cycle and what services are covered is critical for informed decision-making. Current systems rarely provide this unified view. Patients need a choice of apps and other tools to use to access their health information for themselves and their loved ones. Relying solely on applications from EHRs is problematic, especially when a patient has information in multiple EHRs. It’s also a concern for providers when EHR companies do not allow, or make it very expensive, for health systems to use the patient data in their own EHR with other consumer-facing applications that would assist the patient and their loved ones in navigating and understanding their care across different care settings including inpatient, ambulatory, post-acute care, remote patient monitoring, and others. PC-3. Are you aware of health management, care navigation, or personal health record apps that would be useful to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers? RESPONSE: We are aware of a number of applications that perform several key functions. Through our work with Leavitt Partners, we are aware of the “myhealthapplication.com” application library. We encourage CMS, ASTP/ONC, and HHS to review those applications. PC-4. What features are missing from apps you use or that you are aware of today? a. What apps should exist but do not yet? Why do you believe they do not exist yet? b. What set of workflows do you believe CMS is uniquely positioned to offer? RESPONSE: While there are a number of applications that offer significant benefit to individual users, some features missing from current apps include: ● Integration of financial and clinical data. ● Ability to track insurance status, deductibles, and out-of-pocket costs. ● Clear explanation of benefits in human-readable format. ● Coordination of balances, EOBs, payments, and insurance status. 
 ● Question: What can CMS do to help advance these? ○ Don’t require more—especially things folks aren’t using. ○ Could you create some award or challenge to build something new? ○ Increase payment coverage or payment rates for the use of new tools? ○ Incent the system on the back-end to explain what’s going on (esp. in FFS). ○ Areas to advance these in MA and CMMI. We note the work that has been done in several FHIR accelerator programs, including Da Vinci, CARIN, and Argonaut, as well as work done by EHR vendors and others to advance some of these use cases and surface some of this data. However, we believe that more can be done by the application vendor community, as well as by technology vendors who hold certain data, to advance these areas. PC-5: What can CMS and its partners do to encourage patient and caregiver interest in these digital health products? a. What role, if any, should CMS have in reviewing or approving digital health products on the basis of their efficacy, quality or impact or both on health outcomes (not approving in the sense of a coverage determination)? What criteria should be used if there is a review process? What technology solutions, policy changes, or program design changes can increase patient and caregiver adoption of digital health products (for example, enhancements to data access, reimbursement adjustments, or new beneficiary communications)? RESPONSE: The certification of digital health products has progressed significantly since the passage of the HITECH Act. Similarly, products regulated by both CMS and ASTP/ONC have advanced considerably. We believe there is now an opportunity to change the way that certification occurs at both ASTP/ONC and CMS: ● Align federal interoperability, data privacy, and security efforts under a single division within CMS which includes Health Care standards (HIPAA standards, NCVHS), clinical standards (ONC), provider/payer standards (CMS), state Medicaid technology oversight and funding (Data and Systems Group within CMCS), and HIPAA privacy and security enforcement (from OCR). ● ONC should change the definition of CEHRT (Certified Electronic Health Record technology) to “API CEHRT” (Application Programming Interface Certified Electronic Health Retrieval Technology). ● The ONC is able to redefine API CEHRT based on the original definition in the HITECH Act, which includes the adoption of standards in Section 3004 and defines health information technology as inclusive all of the “hardware, software, . . . or 
 packaged solutions sold as services that are designed for or support the use by health care entities or patients for the electronic creation, maintenance, access, or exchange of health information.” This definition would include EHRs, payer systems, API vendors, and cloud-based solutions. ● API CEHRT should focus exclusively on certifying the HL7 FHIR APIs that providers and payers send and receive and no longer certify the functionality within the EHRs or EDI X12 transactions. ● CMS should then point to the new definition of API CEHRT in their regulations to ensure consistency between providers and payers ● The APIs on ONC’s Inferno Test Kit website should be supported by payers and providers and implemented within the next two years. b. What changes would enable timely access to high quality CMS and provider generated data on patients? RESPONSE: CMS is uniquely positioned to pull together quality outcomes and financial data for enrolled FFS beneficiaries, providers, life-science organizations, and others. CMS could: ● Ease the burden of multiple timelines, interfaces, and definitions for quality reporting. ● Consider incorporating aspects of star ratings for digital health products based on experience and usefulness. ● Coordinate with FDA to establish a clear path for recommendation and payment of digital health applications without creating excessive regulatory burden. ● Address payment models for AI-driven care navigation services. PC-7. If CMS were to collect real-world data on digital health products' impact on health outcomes and related costs once they are released into the market, what would be the best means of doing so? RESPONSE: Trust frameworks need significant strengthening. Patients remain concerned about how their data is used when shared across entities, particularly as data exchange becomes more automated and widespread. Any real-world data collection must prioritize transparency about data usage and patient control. PC-8: In your experience, what health data is readily available and valuable to patients or their caregivers or both? a. What data is valuable, but hard for patients and caregivers, or app developers and other technical vendors, to access for appropriate and valuable use (for example, claims data, 
 clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, prices)? RESPONSE: Valuable but difficult-to-access data includes raw images (not just reports), sensitive data that requires federation, and integrated financial/clinical information. b. What are specific sources, other than claims and clinical data, that would be of highest value, and why? RESPONSE: Beyond claims and clinical data, financial status information (deductible status, coverage details) is highly valuable. PC-10. How is the Trusted Exchange Framework and Common AgreementTM (TEFCATM) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world? a. Please provide specific examples. b. What changes would you suggest? RESPONSE: High-impact use cases for TEFCA implementation include: ● IAL2 credential with Record Locator Services using SMART on FHIR EHR portal authentication, enabling consumers to access health information across multiple provider portals with a single credential. ● IAL2 credential with XCPD demographics match across multiple Health Information Exchanges, creating a single credential usable across multiple health information networks. ● IAL2 credential using OpenID Connect with single or multiple QHINs, returning either CDA or FHIR resources to IAS Providers, streamlining authentication and supporting both document and API-based access. ● Facilitated FHIR using HL7 FAST Security Implementation Guide, allowing QHINs to return FHIR endpoints instead of data directly for secure querying. ● Facilitated FHIR with B2B User Authorization Extension Object, supporting complex authorization models across both consumer and business use cases. ● Cross-provider credential acceptance demonstrating one credential issued by one CSP could be accepted by another CSP, establishing true identity federation in healthcare. TEFCA could unlock new value by supporting direct patient contributions to their health record using structured FHIR write transactions. For example, enabling a patient to upload medication adherence logs or self-reported health goals through an application of their choice—validated by a credentialed identity—could significantly enhance data 
 completeness and enable more personalized care planning, especially for chronic disease management. c. What use cases could have a significant impact if implemented through TEFCA? d. What standards are you aware of that are currently working well to advance access and existing exchange purposes? RESPONSE: Several standards work well for health information exchange, though not all are fully implemented within TEFCA yet: ● SMART on FHIR is widely implemented across the industry and provides immediate feasibility for IAS exchange. ● OAuth 2.0 technologies effectively support IAL2 credentials aligned with NIST requirements. ● XCPD transaction protocols support secure, interoperable access for demographic matching between systems. ● The CARIN Alliance's work since 2016 has advanced consumer-directed exchange of health information and digital identity solutions. e. What standards are you aware of that are not currently in wide use, but could improve data access and integration? RESPONSE: ● HL7 FAST Security (required standard by January 1, 2026, under TEFCA) offers improved capabilities including certificate-based authentication and enhanced security controls. ● OpenID Connect Federation 1.0 enables credential federation across different service providers. ● NIST 800-63-3 IAL2 compliant credentials, PKI certificate validation, and JWT with federation extensions strengthen authentication. ● The NCPDP Patient Experience Identifier improves patient matching without compromising privacy. ● UDAP Dynamic Client Registration or the OpenID Federation protocols enables scalable onboarding of applications. f. Are there redundant standards, protocols, or channels that should be consolidated? RESPONSE: ● Longer term, there is not a need for exchanging data via CCDA and X12 when there 
 is an agreed upon FHIR API standard that would exchange the same data types. g. Are there adequate alternatives outside of TEFCA for achieving widespread patient access to their health information? PC-11: How are health information exchanges (HIEs) currently helping to advance patient access to health information in the real world? RESPONSE: For HIEs: ● Need for standardization around opt-in/opt-out and patient consent models. ● Need for adequate provenance and labeling of source data. ● Expansion beyond CCD exchange into RESTful APIs and push capabilities with auto-query as part of standard workflow. PC-14. Regarding digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, Login.gov, ID.me, other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 credentialing service providers (CSP)): RESPONSE: Regarding digital identity credentials, in addition to what we have shared in other portions of this RFI, we note the following: ● We fully support moving to IAL2/AAL2 assurance standards across healthcare for patients and providers. ● Need thoughtful consideration around reasonable fees and how identity costs will be distributed. ● Strong identity proofing reduces downstream administrative issues and fraud. ● Login.gov could be federated with health system identity services so patients could access Medicare, payers, and providers through a single credential. ● Significant concerns about EHR identity vendor lock-in remain while our systems also note the challenges and costs associated with using some of the vendors listed above. ● Core requirements should include OpenID Connect compliance and attestation. ● CSPs/identity providers must attest to certification, not just claim compliance. ● Must include provisions for authorization services across the identity/authorization value chain. ● Patient matching remains a fundamental challenge—without a national patient identifier, error rates in data exchange remain problematic. Members of the AVIA/LP Nexus Collaborative Include: • Intermountain Health 
 • Medstar • OSF Health • Henry Ford Health • Memorial Herrman • Baystate Health • Kettering Health • Froedert Thedacare • Allina Health 