Acumen Solutions, Inc., a Salesforce Company, hereafter referred to as Salesforce Professional Services
(“SPS”), a commercial services company in accordance with the definition in FAR Part 2.101 that
implements, exclusively, professional services on Salesforce platforms, is pleased to respond to the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Request for Information (RFI); Health Technology
Ecosystem. SPS understands the mission-critical nature of this RFI and is ready to provide solutioning
with the goal of leading infrastructure progress to cultivate this market, increasing beneficiary access to
effective digital capabilities needed to make informed health decisions, and increasing data availability for
all stakeholders contributing to health outcomes in support of the mission with Salesforce; a global
customer relationship management (CRM) leader.
SPS has a proven track record of working with agencies across The Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), including CMS. In addition to our work with HHS, we have collaborated with other federal
agencies, state-and-local governments to implement AI-driven solutions.These projects have focused on
improving service delivery, enhancing data analytics capabilities, and streamlining administrative
processes..
At CMS, Salesforce is a long-standing partner in leading delivery for innovation across the agency, with
our expertise spanning across various domains, including solution development, advisory, and change
management, partnering with CMS to maximize the value of its Salesforce investment.
In our submission we are including two items for your consideration:
● A brief video that demonstrates the CMS unified care experience with Salesforce:
Salesforce Professional Services Presents: Unified Care Experience for CMS
● Announcement of Agentforce for Health: Agentforce introduces AI-driven automation, built on
Data Cloud and the Salesforce Platform. It deploys autonomous AI agents using advanced
machine learning and large language models (LLMs) to handle routine inquiries, perform
real-time sentiment analysis, and predict resolutions. Agentforce automates tasks, anticipates
needs, and escalates complex cases securely.
SPS “We build with you, not just for you”
SPS is a consultancy service within Salesforce that provides
customized professional services on a client-by-client basis with
successful execution through a sound implementation strategy tailored
to your business needs. With SPS, customers benefit from tailored
roadmaps, platform flexibility, and faster innovation.
Whether you’re creating your first engagement system, replacing an
existing one, or customizing your Salesforce application, our
experienced consultants provide the strategic guidance and hands-on
know-how you need. Our expertise translates into business solutions for
our customers that push the boundaries of what’s possible, giving you a
competitive advantage that drives bottom-line results.
Our industry solutions and experts support the capabilities your
business needs most to optimize and thrive. Our team will collaborate
This Request for Information (RFI) includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be
duplicated, used or disclosed--in whole or in part--for any purpose other than to evaluate this RFI. If, however, a contract is
awarded to this offeror as a result of--or in connection with--the submission of this data, and the Government incorporates
the RFI as part of the award, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data for purposes of such
award and performance of the awarded contract. Also, this restriction does not limit the Government’s right to use
information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to the restriction is
contained in pages marked with “Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title
page of this RFI response.” The responses herein shall not be part of a final contract.
1

with you to help you go live with your implementation, reach your goals, and continuously innovate to
maximize your value from Salesforce. We've established leading principles and practices that will help
you get faster time to value and long-term success with Salesforce. We share best practices, skills, and
tools that can bring you new ways of working, beyond technology.
SPS is committed to the highest standards of quality, security, and compliance. Our structured,
process-driven delivery approach provides efficiency, risk reduction, and consistency.
Accelerators
A Salesforce accelerator is a pre-configured application tailored for specific industries or solution
areas—such as grants, permitting, contact centers, and case management—that shortens
implementation timelines and reduces costs for customers."
In response to our customers’ priorities to modernize and cut waste, Salesforce has developed
accelerators that make our Professional Services team even more efficient at delivering transformative
projects to our customers.
Grants Intake: We offer a pre-configured accelerator specifically designed for the federal grants process,
shaped by real-world requirements for a large Federal agency. Our accelerator cuts grant implementation
time by 30% compared to other solutions. Launch your funding program in as little as 12 weeks with our
easy-to-use Grants Management Intake App, designed to boost applicant access and speed up results.
Permitting: Salesforce offers an industry solution that provides the data model and workflows for
permitting and inspections. Leveraging this framework, SPS is able to deploy permitting and inspection
solutions to our customers faster and reliably achieve success by using proven automations.
Contact Centers: SPS has deployed successful contact centers for Federal and State & Local
customers; making operations more efficient and providing deeper insights into citizen needs. Our
Agentforce solution for contact center deflects call volume from human agents, allowing customers to
process more inquiries with the same or fewer human agents.
Case Management: SPS specializes in a wide range of case management solutions built on the
Salesforce case management framework using workflow automations, AI and robust industry data
models:
● Citizen case management (311)
● Social Services case management
● Legal case management
● Military and Veteran programs
● Student Services case management
The SPS Advantage
● End-to-End Accountability Driven by Your Mission, Backed by Salesforce— We help customers
turn their most ambitious goals into measurable outcomes—faster, smarter, and with less risk. As the
This Request for Information (RFI) includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be
duplicated, used or disclosed--in whole or in part--for any purpose other than to evaluate this RFI. If, however, a contract is
awarded to this offeror as a result of--or in connection with--the submission of this data, and the Government incorporates
the RFI as part of the award, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data for purposes of such
award and performance of the awarded contract. Also, this restriction does not limit the Government’s right to use
information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to the restriction is
contained in pages marked with “Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title
page of this RFI response.” The responses herein shall not be part of a final contract.
2

implementation arm of Salesforce, we deliver vendor-backed, end-to-end accountability to ensure you
realize the full value of your investment.
● Unparalleled Access to Innovation—When you select SPS, it has the full power of Salesforce
behind it. This includes access to and partnership with the Product, Engineering, Architecture,
Security, and other teams that are working together and committed to your success. With direct
access to innovation, SPS accesses the full power of Salesforce and provides a direct line to product,
engineering, and our latest releases through our 65,000+ employees.
● Unrivaled Salesforce Expertise—As the most experienced Salesforce service professionals in the
public sector, SPS taps into 25+ years of experience working with thousands of customers, so you
can confidently build upon Salesforce’s latest technology.
● Customer-focused Implementation Methodology—Our methodology values "configure first,” puts
human-centered design at the forefront, and demonstrates our ability to innovate with the platform in
ways that maximize the Salesforce value proposition for customer success. As SPS, we empower
customers to accelerate their time to value with the Salesforce Customer 360 and build their path to
long-term success in this all digital world.
This Request for Information (RFI) includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be
duplicated, used or disclosed--in whole or in part--for any purpose other than to evaluate this RFI. If, however, a contract is
awarded to this offeror as a result of--or in connection with--the submission of this data, and the Government incorporates
the RFI as part of the award, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data for purposes of such
award and performance of the awarded contract. Also, this restriction does not limit the Government’s right to use
information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to the restriction is
contained in pages marked with “Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title
page of this RFI response.” The responses herein shall not be part of a final contract.
3