February 23, 2026
The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
Secretary
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Mary E. Switzer Building
330 C Street SW
Washington, DC 20201
Submitted electronically via www.regulations.gov
Re: Request for Information; Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as
Part of Clinical Care (RIN 0955-AA13)
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
Kaiser Permanente appreciates the opportunity to comment on HHS’ request for information
(RFI)1 soliciting public comment regarding how HHS can accelerate the adoption and use of
artificial intelligence (AI) in clinical care (the “HHS Health Sector AI RFI”). Kaiser Permanente2
is the largest private integrated health care delivery system in the United States, with more than
12.8 million members in nine states and the District of Columbia. Kaiser Permanente’s mission is
to provide high-quality, affordable health care services and to improve the health of our members
and the communities we serve.
AI holds significant potential to improve nearly every aspect of health care. AI can be leveraged
to streamline administrative processes and alleviate provider burden while also improving care
quality, affordability and patient experience. At the same time, it is critical that AI tools used in
health care be safe and effective to build trust among patients and providers. HHS can play an
important role in advancing the use of AI by adopting policies that enable health care systems to
realize the potential of AI while ensuring tools are safe, effective and provide tangible benefits.
Our high priority policy recommendations are summarized below, followed by more detailed
comments that provide input on questions and topics addressed in the RFI.
Overall, we recommend that HHS:
 Adopt a national AI framework that is flexible, adaptable and evidence-based.
 Support health care workforce education and training programs to equip providers with
resources and training to effectively and responsibly deploy AI tools.
 Enhance federal government and private sector partnerships to support AI innovation,
research and development.
1 90 Fed. Reg. 60108 (Dec. 23, 2025).
2 Kaiser Permanente comprises Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., one of the nation’s largest not-for-profit health plans, and its
health plan subsidiaries outside California and Hawaii; the not-for-profit Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, which operates 40 hospitals
and more than 600 other clinical facilities; and the Permanente Medical Groups, self-governed physician group practices that
exclusively contract with Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and its health plan subsidiaries to meet the health needs of Kaiser
Permanente’s members.
One Kaiser Plaza
Oakland, CA 94612

Kaiser Permanente Comments
HHS Health Sector AI RFI
REGULATION
HHS states in the RFI that the Department seeks to “establish a regulatory posture on AI that is
well understood, predictable and proportionate to any risks presented to enable rapid innovation
while protecting patients and the confidentiality of their identifiable health information, and
maintaining public trust.”3 Kaiser Permanente appreciates these efforts and offers the following
feedback and recommendations regarding how regulation impacts AI adoption and use in clinical
care.
Complex Regulatory and Enforcement Environment
Oversight is important to assure patient safety and care quality, however, the emerging complex
regulatory environment with layers of inconsistent guidance and requirements from industry, states
and federal agencies hampers health care systems’ ability to adopt AI tools and diminishes the
efficiencies and cost savings that use of the tools could bring to clinical care.
We therefore recommend that HHS work with stakeholders to establish a federal framework for
governing AI used in health care that preempts conflicting state laws. This approach will enable
health systems to focus their time and resources on innovating and deploying tools rather than
tracking and complying with the proliferation of inconsistent or duplicative requirements.
Adoption of a federal AI regulatory framework will also support private sector activities (e.g.,
accreditation, certification, industry-driven testing and credentialing) by providing a consistent
structure to build upon and align with.
The federal AI regulatory framework should be flexible, adaptable and evidence-based. It should
provide an overarching structure that is risk-based, consistent with nationally recognized AI risk
management frameworks, such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) AI
Risk Management Framework and the International Organization for Standardization/International
Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) AI Guidance on Risk Management. The framework
should also establish guardrails to ensure patient safety while being flexible and adaptable to keep
pace with rapidly evolving technology. It should focus on monitoring outcomes rather than
imposing prescriptive governance requirements and be scalable by organizations of all sizes and
levels of sophistication. This will allow all patients to benefit from innovative technologies while
also being protected from potential harm.
We recommend that the federal regulatory framework exclude from classification as “developers”
those health care entities that develop AI tools for their own internal use and do not make the tools
available to others. This approach is consistent with other federal medical software device policies
and promotes access to innovative technologies while reducing costs and administrative burden.
Health care entities that develop tools carefully tailor them to work within our clinical workflows
based on our patient populations, resulting in tools that are more efficient and clinically effective.
This approach also reduces risks associated with AI tools developed by third parties, such as
potential misuse, unwanted bias, or data inconsistencies or vulnerabilities. Health care entities that
self-develop tools are ultimately responsible for how the tool performs, and many of the
3 90 Fed. Reg. at 60109.
2

Kaiser Permanente Comments
HHS Health Sector AI RFI
requirements applicable to developers (e.g., transparency reporting requirements) would not make
sense to apply to entities that both develop and deploy the tool internally.
Lastly, it is critical that a federal AI regulatory framework be coordinated across federal agencies
and across states to avoid duplicative and/or conflicting guidance and enforcement. As noted
above, proliferation of differing state-specific requirements will increase administrative burden
and create compliance risks that will discourage AI adoption. Similarly, multiple regulators
overseeing the same requirements can create confusion and lead to differences in interpretation
and enforcement. We recommend that AI oversight be coordinated among expert federal agencies,
such as ASTP/ONC and FDA, well versed in emerging technology and associated risks and
benefits.
Evidence
Many health care organizations have been slow to adopt AI tools due to the lack of evidence
demonstrating safety and effectiveness. This is compounded by the lack of nationally established
standards to measure key functional aspects of AI tools such as, accuracy, explainability and
reliability. We recommend that HHS partner with the private sector and standards setting
organizations to develop standards that measure these functional aspects of AI tools and systems
to enable health systems to accurately evaluate performance across varying clinical settings and
applications.
We also recommend that HHS seek out private sector partnership opportunities to support the
continued development and use of AI in clinical care. For example, rigorous research studies, such
as health system-embedded studies and other hybrid implementation-effectiveness studies, should
be leveraged to create a robust body of data and evidence that demonstrate how AI tools perform
across patient populations in real-world settings. This approach would promote AI adoption by
allowing a wide range of health care entities to efficiently evaluate the safety and efficacy of AI
tools. Establishing a voluntary post-implementation surveillance program would also promote AI
adoption by enabling health care entities to share data to inform best practices and highlight
potential issues in a more efficient and cost-effective manner.
Trust
Lack of trust in AI tools from patients and providers is a fundamental barrier that often inhibits AI
tool adoption and efforts to promote trust should be designed and advanced with both patients and
providers in mind. Concerns over the effectiveness of the tools, impacts to care quality, patient
experience and the privacy and security of health care data all contribute to this lack of trust. Some
providers are also hesitant to use AI-enabled tools because they do not understand how the tools
were developed, how they work, or how to use them in practice.
To address these concerns, we recommend that HHS work with stakeholders to develop and
implement a set of minimum documentation requirements for developers of AI-enabled health care
tools to disclose to the entities that will use the tool. This should include sufficient information to
help providers understand how the tool was developed, including what data was used to train the
tool, and how it is intended to function. Such transparency is particularly important in health care
to help providers determine if a tool is appropriate for their needs. For example, a risk stratification
3

Kaiser Permanente Comments
HHS Health Sector AI RFI
tool that was trained with Medicare beneficiary data may not be appropriate for use in pediatric
practices.
We also recommend that HHS support health care workforce education and training programs to
equip providers with the resources and training to effectively and responsibly deploy AI tools.
HHS should publish implementation toolkits along with best practices to guide health care
organizations, along with sponsoring AI resource centers such as the Kaiser Permanente
Augmented Intelligence in Medicine and Healthcare Initiative (AIM-HI) Coordinating Center4
that demonstrate the value clinical AI tools can bring to providers and patients across diverse care
settings.
Lastly, we recommend that HHS develop and launch education campaigns for consumers,
particularly those enrolled in public programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. These education
campaigns should explain how AI can be used to improve care and help consumers differentiate
between patient wellness devices and applications and AI-enabled tools used by providers,
including the differences in required privacy and security protections.
Privacy and Security of Patient Data
Patient health data is essential to developing, validating and deploying AI tools used in clinical
care, yet patient privacy is consistently cited as a barrier to adoption and use. While the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy and Security Rules provide a
robust framework that protects information handled by covered entities and business associates,
most privacy risks related to AI in health care occur outside HIPAA’s scope—among consumer
applications, data brokers and other entities that are neither covered entities nor business
associates.
We recommend that HHS issue guidance that describes existing privacy and security protections
and how they apply to the use of AI data in health care. This guidance should highlight any gaps
or opportunities, such as consumer-directed tools and applications, so that any additional
protections align with and build upon the existing regulatory framework. Specifically, guidance
should:
 Clarify how the de-identification standards in 45 CFR 164.514 apply to AI model training
and validation, including the use of limited datasets and synthetic data;
 Outline expectations for business associate agreements (BAAs) when vendors or service
providers host, fine-tune or deploy AI models using protected health information; and
 Provide examples of compliant implementation of the HIPAA Security Rule for AI
systems, including encryption, access controls and use of privacy-enhancing technologies,
such as secure enclaves and federated learning.
4 Greene, Jan, (Dec. 18, 2023) Kaiser Permanente coordinates real-world demonstrations of AI, machine learning in health care,
Kaiser Permanente Division of Research, available at https://divisionofresearch.kaiserpermanente.org/kaiser-permanente-ai-
machine-learning-in-health-care/
4

Kaiser Permanente Comments
HHS Health Sector AI RFI
This guidance would reduce uncertainty for covered entities, strengthen compliance consistency
across the health care sector, and avoid the need for potentially duplicative AI-specific privacy
regulations.
We also recommend that HHS work with stakeholders to develop a federal approach to closing
the privacy gap that occurs outside of HIPAA’s scope. This approach should establish baseline
privacy and security requirements for non-HIPAA actors that collect or infer health-related data
while preserving the statute’s established framework for regulated health care organizations.
Accountability
A lack of clear accountability structures leads to uncertainty about who is responsible for AI-
related errors or negative outcomes which discourages adoption, especially for higher-risk
applications such as generative tools used in clinical applications. We recommend that HHS issue
interpretive guidance that defines accountability for outcomes, distinguishing between developer
and deployer responsibilities. Deployers should be responsible for their use of the AI tool while
developers should be accountable for data quality (including any third-party data sources used for
development or validation), model and system performance, and design flaws.
Promote Value-Based and Integrated Care
Integrated care models, such as Kaiser Permanente, facilitate coordinated care that improves
patient outcomes5 in a cost-effective manner. Health condition-specific digital tools and programs
may help patients better understand and manage their health conditions. However, there is a risk
that these programs and tools may fragment care delivery by dividing up care management
activities and accountabilities across various entities without a corresponding mechanism to share
data and coordinate care, which can lead to poorer outcomes, especially for individuals with
multiple chronic health conditions.
Additionally, current payment models do not create incentives for health systems to leverage high-
quality and clinically appropriate virtual care and AI tools to augment traditional care delivery
modes. We encourage HHS to explore reimbursement and program design approaches that support
integration of these tools and programs into existing health system clinical workflows and allow
flexibility across care settings with aligned incentives based on the total cost of care.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
We appreciate efforts by HHS to investigate ways to invest in research and development to
integrate AI in care delivery and create new, long-term market opportunities to improve the health
and wellbeing of all Americans.
Published Findings on Impact of Adopted AI Tools and Use in Clinical Care
5 Cooke, K., Kaiser Permanente: Highlights of an integrated care delivery system. Hospital Administration and Medical
Practices (Sept. 2024), available at https://doi.org/10.54844/hamp.2024.0046
5

Kaiser Permanente Comments
HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Investments in research and development can provide patients with access to life-changing
advancements in care delivery that improve quality of care and clinical outcomes. At Kaiser
Permanente, we are working to advance understanding of how AI tools perform in actual health
care delivery settings with appropriate guardrails and monitoring. We have published several
studies that demonstrate the effectiveness of these tools, including:
 Advance Alert Monitor: An innovative AI system that is estimated to save 500 lives a year6
in our Northern California hospitals by using predictive analytics to identify at-risk
hospitalized patients and prevent deterioration and reduce adverse outcomes before they
occur.7
 Transition Support Level Score: An AI system that uses predictive analytics to identify
patients that would benefit from a care coordination intervention after hospital discharge
which resulted in reduced hospital readmission rates.8
 Desktop Medicine Program: An AI system that uses natural language processing
algorithms to optimize patient-physician email communication9 and reduce provider
burden.
 Ambient AI Scribes: AI system that uses machine learning to facilitate scribe-like
capabilities in real time to improve physician-patient interaction and improve
administrative efficiency.10 This tool has supported over 2.5 million visits and our
physicians experienced a reduction in clinical documentation workload of more than
15,700 hours, equivalent to 1,794 working days, over a year of use compared to non-
users.11
 Kaiser Permanente Intelligent Navigator: AI system that augments the patient portal
appointment booking workflow to enhance care navigation and improve the patient
experience by using natural language processing to detect high-acuity cases and
recommend scheduling options for timely and appropriate care. Patients using the system
reported improved satisfaction and ease of navigation.12
6 Martinez, et al., The Kaiser Permanente Northern California Advance Alert Monitor Program: An Automated Early Warning
System for Adults at Risk for In-Hospital Clinical Deterioration, Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient Safety (Aug.
2022), available at https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1553725022001106.
7 Escobar, G et al., Automated Identification of Adults at Risk for In-Hospital Clinical Deterioration. The New England Journal
of Medicine (Nov. 2020), available at https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsa2001090
8 Marafino, B. et al., Evaluation of an intervention targeted with predictive analytics to prevent readmissions in an integrated
health system: observational study. BMJ,(Aug 2021), available at https://www.bmj.com/content/374/bmj.n1747
9 Liu VX, et al., Content of Patient Electronic Messages to Physicians in a Large Integrated System. JAMA Network Open,(April
2024), available at https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2817150?resultClick=3
10 Tierney, et al., Ambient Artificial Intelligence Scribes to Alleviate the Burden of Clinical Documentation. NEJM Catalyst
(Feb. 2024), available at https://catalyst.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/CAT.23.0404
11 Tierney, et al., Ambient Artificial Intelligence Scribes: Learnings after 1 Year and Over 2.5 Million Uses, NEJM Catal Innov
Care Deliv (Mar. 2025) available at https://catalyst.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/CAT.25.0040 .
12 Nguyen, D., Lee, S., Synghal, R. et al., Digital transformation with clinical alerts and personalized care systems in an integrated
value based model. npj Digit. Med. (July 2025), available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41746-025-01838-1
6

Kaiser Permanente Comments
HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Consumer Directed Tools
Despite concerns related to AI, patients and caregivers are increasingly using AI-enabled tools
such as health care apps and websites to help them manage their health and access care.13
The FDA recently clarified that many low-risk software tools14 and consumer wearables15 fall
outside of medical device regulation. This guidance is intended to focus regulatory oversight on
products that present meaningful risks to patient safety, while allowing lower-risk consumer
technologies to evolve without unnecessary regulatory burden. Under the new guidance, FDA may
consider products that use non-invasive sensing to estimate, infer or output physiologic parameters
(such as heart rate variability, blood glucose, oxygen saturation or blood pressure) to be non-device
general wellness products when the outputs are intended solely for wellness uses.
Wellness devices are popular with consumers and wearable technology is becoming much more
capable and user-friendly. However, despite their popularity, consumer wearables continue to fall
short in data accuracy and consistency, especially when compared to medical devices. Because
sensors used in wellness devices can vary, two similar wearables might show different readings
for the same health metric. Such inconsistency limits their utility in health care where even small
errors can create risk, and unreliable data can cause unnecessary worry or, conversely, a false sense
of security among users. Nevertheless, wellness devices and applications can be useful tools to
promote healthy behaviors and to improve population well-being.
HHS should prioritize research to better understand how patients are using consumer directed
tools, including wellness devices. This research should be used to determine the benefits associated
with use, along with any guardrails that should be put in place to ensure that the tools add value
and do not create confusion for patients and add administrative burden, complexity and risk for
providers. We caution against pilots or programs that directly incorporate data from unregulated
consumer directed tools into the patient’s medical record due to data accuracy concerns and
variability in how the various tools capture and record data. However, we encourage HHS to
establish best practices to guide wellness tool developers and educate patients and providers about
the utility of wellness devices and applications to promote appropriate use.
* * *
Kaiser Permanente appreciates HHS’ consideration of our comments, and we look forward to
continued collaboration. Please feel free to contact me at erin.e.richardson@kp.org or Megan Lane
at Megan.A.Lane@kp.org with questions or if we can provide additional information.
13 Sparks, Grace, Montalvo III, Julian, et al., KFF Health Tracking Poll: Public Use and Trust in Health Care Apps and Websites,
KFF (Oct, 24, 2025), available at https://www.kff.org/public-opinion/kff-health-tracking-poll-public-use-and-trust-in-health-care-
apps-and-websites/
14 U.S. Food & Drug Administration (Jan., 2026) Clinical Decision Support Software: Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug
Administration Staff, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, available at https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/clinical-
decision-support-software
15 U.S. Food & Drug Administration (Jan., 2026) General Wellness: Policy for Low Risk Devices, Center for Devices and
Radiological Health, available at https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/general-wellness-
policy-low-risk-devices
7

Kaiser Permanente Comments
HHS Health Sector AI RFI
Sincerely,
__________________________________________
Erin E. Richardson
Senior Vice President
Policy and Regulatory Affairs
_________________________________________
Stephen Parodi, MD
Executive Vice President
External Affairs, Communications, and Brand
The Permanente Federation
8