UnitedHealthcare
®
Quality Reference Guide
2025 HEDIS,® CMS Part D, CAHPS® and HOS Measures
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA).
CAHPS® is a registered trademark of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ).
Information contained in this guide is based on NCQA HEDIS technical specifications.
For more details, please visit ncqa.org.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025
© 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

We have the same goal:
To help improve your patients’ health outcomes by
identifying and addressing open care opportunities.
Like you, we want your patients, who are UnitedHealthcare plan members, to be as healthy
as possible. And a big part of that is making sure they get the preventive care and chronic
care management they need. To help identify care opportunities, our PATH program provides
information specific to UnitedHealthcare members who are due or overdue for specific services.
This reference guide can help you better understand the specifications for many of the quality
measurement programs and tools used to address care opportunities, as well as how to report data
and related billing codes.
For additional PATH resources or to access this guide online, please visit UHCprovider.com/path.
Insurance coverage provided by or through UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company or its affiliates. Health plan coverage provided by UnitedHealthcare
of Arizona, Inc., UHC of California DBA UnitedHealthcare of California, UnitedHealthcare Benefits Plan of California, UnitedHealthcare of Colorado, Inc.,
UnitedHealthcare of the Mid-Atlantic, Inc., MAMSI Life and Health Insurance Company, UnitedHealthcare of New York, Inc., UnitedHealthcare Insurance
Company of New York, UnitedHealthcare of Oklahoma, Inc., UnitedHealthcare of Oregon, Inc., UnitedHealthcare of Pennsylvania, Inc., UnitedHealthcare of
Texas, Inc., UnitedHealthcare Benefits of Texas, Inc., UnitedHealthcare of Utah, Inc., UnitedHealthcare of Washington, Inc., Optimum Choice, Inc., Oxford Health
Insurance, Inc., Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc., Oxford Health Plans (CT), Inc., All Savers Insurance Company, or other affiliates. Administrative services provided
by OptumHealth Care Solutions, LLC, OptumRx, Oxford Health Plans LLC, United HealthCare Services, Inc., or other affiliates. Behavioral health products
provided by U.S. Behavioral Health Plan, California (USBHPC), United Behavioral Health (UBH), or its affiliates.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

By working together, we can
achieve our shared goals.
HEDIS measures CAHPS® measures
HEDIS is a National Committee for Quality Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers
Assurance (NCQA) tool used by more than 90% of and Systems (CAHPS) is an annual survey that
America’s health plans to measure performance asks consumers and members to report on and
on important dimensions of care and service. evaluate their experiences with health care. The
• HEDIS measures are reported as administrative CAHPS® survey is governed by CMS and NCQA.
or hybrid and are collected and reported • The survey is given annually between February
annually by health plans and June to adults ages 18 and older who
• The data collection cycle, which includes have been enrolled in a health plan during a
gathering medical record information from continuous 6-month period for Medicare and
care providers, generally happens in the first Medicaid, or a 12-month period for commercial.
half of each year For Medicaid only, guardians of children ages 17
and younger are also given the survey if
• The data is then used to evaluate quality
they’ve been enrolled in a plan for a continuous
of care, which is determined by dividing
6-month period.
the measure numerator by the measure
denominator • Respondents are asked a core set of questions
determined by NCQA and CMS, in addition to
HEDIS-related terms are explained in the
a series of optional supplemental questions
glossary.
crafted by a health plan and approved by NCQA
CMS measures and CMS
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) • Members are given the option to complete the
Part D medication adherence measures are survey by mail, phone or online
used to help increase the number of Medicare
• Results are calculated and released between
members taking their cholesterol (statin),
July and October
diabetes and/or hypertension (RAS antagonist)
medications as prescribed. Members are eligible HOS measures
for a measure if their medication appears on a Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) is a health plan
targeted list provided by the Pharmacy Quality member survey by CMS that gathers health status
Alliance (PQA). Their adherence is then evaluated data specific
using the proportion of days covered (PDC), which to the Medicare Advantage program.
is defined in the Glossary. Respondents are given a baseline survey between
late August to November and then asked to
• CMS considers Medicare members adherent if
complete a follow-up survey 2 years later between
their PDC is 80% or more at the end of the
August and November.
measurement period
Baseline survey results are calculated and
• Member eligibility and performance within
released in May of the following year, while results
the Part D medication adherence measures is
for the follow-up survey are provided during the
based entirely on prescription claims processed
summer of the following year.
at the pharmacy under the Part
D benefit
• Supplemental data from medical records or
patient assessments can’t be used to affect
these measures.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

By working together, we can
achieve our shared goals. (cont.)
QHP Enrollee Experience Survey CMS requires that QHP issuers submit QHP Enrollee
QHP Enrollee Experience Survey measures Survey response data and QRS clinical measure data
satisfaction with care received, physicians and for their respective QHPs in accordance with CMS
ease of access for the Individual and Family Plans guidelines. The QHP Enrollee Survey is largely based
(Exchange) plans. on items from the CAHPS Surveys, which includes
standard CAHPS questions with additional CAHPS
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
custom questions. The survey runs from February
(ACA) necessitated the development of a quality
through May via telephone, email, mail and web.
rating and enrollee satisfaction with each QHP
offered through the Health Insurance Marketplaces.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Contents
Glossary of Terms ................................A6
Tools You Can Use ................................A7
Social Drivers of Health (SDoH) Protocol ....A13
Electronic Clinical Data Systems Measures ....A15
Advancing Health Equity .......................A17
• Language Diversity of Membership (LDM) ..A19
• Race and Ethnicity Diversity
of Membership (RDM) ........................A21
HEDIS measures
Preventive care Utilization
Advanced Care Planning (ACP) ................... 1 Acute Hospital Utilization (AHU) .................69
Care for Older Adults (COA) Adults' Access to Preventive/Ambulatory
• Functional status assessment ................. 3 Health Services (AAP) ..........................70
• Medication review .............................6 Emergency Department Utilization (EDU) .......73
Hospitalization for Potentially Preventable
Women’s health care Complications (HPC) ............................75
Chlamydia Screening (CHL) ......................10 Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
Osteoporosis Management in Women for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Who Had a Fracture (OMW) .....................13 Conditions (FMC) ...............................78
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC) ............20 Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) .......................86
Management of chronic conditions
Plan All-Cause Readmissions (PCR) ..............97
Asthma Medication Ratio (AMR) .................28
Transitions of Care (TRC)
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
• Notification of Inpatient Admission
Diabetes (BPD) ..................................32
(TRCNIA) .................................... 100
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) ..........39
• Medication Reconciliation
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED) .....47
Post-Discharge (TRCMRP) ...................103
Glycemic Status Assessment for Patients
• Patient Engagement After Inpatient
With Diabetes (GSD) ..............................54
Discharge (TRCPE) ...........................107
Kidney Health Evaluation for Patients
• Receipt of Discharge Information
With Diabetes (KED) ............................58
(TRCRDI) .....................................110
Persistence of Beta-Blocker Treatment
Use of Imaging Studies for Low Back
After a Heart Attack (PBH) ........................62
Pain (LBP) ......................................113
Pharmacotherapy Management of COPD
Exacerbation (PCE) .............................66
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Contents
Behavioral health Pediatrics
Adherence to Antipsychotic Medications Child and Adolescent Well-Care
for Individuals With Schizophrenia (SAA) .......118 Visits (WCV) ................................... 209
Cardiovascular Monitoring for People With Lead Screening in Children (LSC) ...............213
Cardiovascular Disease and Use of First-Line Psychosocial Care for Children
Schizophrenia (SMC) ...........................122 and Adolescents on Antipsychotics (APP) .....215
Diabetes Monitoring for People With Diabetes Weight Assessment and Counseling for
and Schizophrenia (SMD) ......................124 Nutrition and Physical Activity for
Diabetes Screening for People With Children/Adolescents (WCC) ..................219
Schizophrenia or Bipolar Disorder Well-Child Visits in the First 30 Months
Who Are Using Antipsychotic of Life (W30) ....................................224
Medications (SSD) ..............................127
Electronic Clinical Data Submission
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
(ECDS) measures
Mental Illness (FUH) ............................131
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for Adult Immunization Status (AIS-E) ............ 226
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) ..................141 Breast Cancer Screening (BCS-E) ...............234
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Cervical Cancer Screening (CCS-E) ............ 236
Visit for Mental Illness (FUM) ...................151
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) .......243
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
Colorectal Cancer Screening (COL-E) ......... 254
for Substance Use (FUA) .........................160
Depression Screening and Follow-Up for
Medication management Adolescents and Adults (DSF-E) .............. 260
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
Appropriate Testing for Pharyngitis (CWP) .....169
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) .................... 265
Avoidance of Antibiotic Treatment for Acute
Utilization of the PHQ-9 to Monitor
Bronchitis/Bronchiolitis (AAB) .................173
Depression Symptoms for Adolescents
Appropriate Treatment for Upper
and Adults (DMS-E) ........................... .274
Respiratory Infection (URI) .....................177
Depression Remission or Response for
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Adolescents and Adults (DRR-E) ................277
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) ...................182
Immunizations for Adolescents (IMA-E) ....... 280
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Metabolic Monitoring for Children and
Diabetes (SPD) .................................189
Adolescents on Antipsychotics (APM-E) ..... 285
Use of Opioids at High Dosage (HDO) ..........194
Prenatal Immunization Status (PRS-E) ........ 289
Use of Opioids From Multiple
Postpartum Depression Screening and
Providers (UOP) ................................198
Follow-Up (PDS-E) ............................. 292
Pharmacotherapy for Opioid Use
Prenatal Depression Screening and
Disorder (POD) ................................ 202
Follow-Up (PND-E) .............................. 297
Risk of Continued Opioid Use (COU) ........... 205
Social Need Screening and
Intervention (SNS-E) .......................... 302
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Contents
CMS Part D Star Ratings measures International Normalized Ratio Monitoring
for Individuals on Warfarin (INR) ............. 329
Concurrent Use of Opioids and
Proportion of Days Covered (PDC) ..............331
Benzodiazepines (COB) ....................... 307
Medication Adherence for Cholesterol CAHPS® measures
(MAC) .......................................... 309
Care Coordination ...............................333
Medication Adherence for Diabetes
Customer Service ................................333
Medications (MAD) ..............................312
Getting Appointments and Care Quickly ...... 334
Medication Adherence for Hypertension
Getting Needed Care ........................... 334
(RAS Antagonists) (MAH) .......................315
Rating of Health Care ........................... 334
Medication Therapy Management Program
Rating of Health Plan ........................... 334
Completion Rate for Comprehensive Medication Rating of Personal Doctor ...................... 334
Reviews (CMR) ..................................318 Rating of Specialist Seen Most Often .......... 335
Polypharmacy – Use of Multiple Medical Assistance With Smoking and
Anticholinergics Medications in Older Adults Tobacco Use Cessation ....................... 335
(Poly-ACH) ......................................321
HOS measures
Statin Use in Persons With Diabetes (SUPD) ....324
Improving Bladder Control ..................... 336
QRS Exchange/Marketplace
Improving or Maintaining Mental Health ...... 336
measures Improving or Maintaining Physical Health ......337
Annual Monitoring for Persons on Long-Term Monitoring Physical Activity .................... 338
Opioid Therapy (AMO) ...........................327 Reducing the Risk of Falling .................... 338
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Glossary of Terms
Home
Measurement year Collection and reporting method
In most cases, the 12-month time frame between • Administrative – Measures reported as
which a service was rendered – generally Jan.1 administrative use the total eligible population
– Dec. 31. Data collected from this time frame is for the denominator. Medical, pharmacy and
reported during the reporting year. encounter claims count toward the numerator.
In some instances, health plans use approved
Reporting year
supplemental data for the numerator.
The time frame when data is collected and • Hybrid – Measures reported as hybrid use
reported. The service dates are from the a random sample of 411 members from a
measurement year, which is usually the year prior. health plan’s total eligible population for the
In some cases, the service dates may go back denominator. The numerator includes medical
more than one year. and pharmacy claims, encounters and medical
record data. In some cases, health plans use
Example: The 2022 reporting year would
auditor-approved supplemental data for
include data from services rendered during the
the numerator.
measurement year, which would be 2021 and/or
• Supplemental data – Standardized process
any time prior. Results from the 2022 reporting
in which clinical data is collected by health
year would likely be released in June 2022,
plans for purposes of HEDIS improvement.
depending on the quality program.
Supplemental clinical data is additional data
beyond claims data.
Denominator
The number of members who qualify for • Electronic Clinical Data Systems (ECDS) -
Organizations may use several data sources
the measure criteria, based on NCQA
to provide complete information about the
technical specifications.
quality of health services delivered to its
Numerator members. Data systems that may be eligible
for HEDIS ECDS reporting include, but are not
The number of members who meet compliance
limited to:
criteria based on NCQA technical specifications
for appropriate care, treatment or service. – Administrative claims
– Member eligibility files
Medical record data
– Electronic health records
The information taken directly from a member’s – Clinical registries
medical record to validate services rendered that
– Health information exchanges
weren’t captured through medical or pharmacy
– Administrative claims systems
claims, encounters or supplemental data.
– Disease/case management registries
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Glossary of Terms (cont.)
HHoommee
Required exclusion • Members with a claim for hospice services
during the measurement year will be excluded
Members are excluded from a measure
from all applicable measures.
denominator based on a diagnosis and/or
procedure captured in their Claim/encounter/
Proportion of days covered (PDC)
Pharmacy data. If applicable, the required exclusion
is applied after the claims data is processed According to the Pharmacy Quality Alliance
within certified HEDIS software while the measure (PQA), the PDC is the percent of days in the
denominator is being created. measurement period covered by prescription
For example:Members with end-stage renal disease claims for the same medication or another in its
(ESRD) during the measurement year or year therapeutic category.
prior will be excluded from the statin therapy for
patients with cardiovascular disease (SPC) measure
denominator.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Tools You Can Use Home
We’re always looking for ways to make your job easier and give you more
time to do what matters most – care for patients.
The following digital solutions, tools and education are designed to help you
quickly complete claim tasks, share data, identify members due for tests and
screenings, and more.
Our digital solutions
Application programming interface (API) • Verify member eligibility and confirm benefits
API is a free digital solution that allows health • Check status of and submit prior authorizations
• Estimate, manage and take action on claims
care professionals to automate administrative
and payments
transactions. This is a great alternative to
• Verify, submit and search referral requests
Document Library for organizations with
• Manage prescriptions
medium-to-high claim volume that have the
• Manage your communication preferences
technical resources to program API or the ability to
• Verify, update and attest to provider demographic
outsource implementation. API interacts between
data in the portal using My Practice Profile
multiple applications and allows you to get detailed
– Several attestation options available
data on claims status and payment, documents, • View your workflow at a glance and take action
eligibility and benefits, reconsiderations and with TrackIt
appeals, and referrals. • Access documents online through
Document Library
Learn more at UHCprovider.com/apistart.
• Get credentialing and contracting help
Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) • Additional tools and resources, including:
EDI is an electronic method of securely exchanging – Practice Assist: Manage patient care
opportunities and suspect medical conditions
between systems via a standard transaction set.
across multiple health plans. Access Practice
Transactions are generated from your practice
Assist on the provider portal under Clinical &
management system (PMS) or hospital information
Pharmacy.
system (HIS), and then routed to a clearinghouse
– Chat: Get real-time answers to your questions
for submission to UnitedHealthcare. It enables the
on claims, eligibility and benefits, prior
submission and receipt of batch transactions for
authorization and advance notification,
multiple members and payers, reducing the need
credentialing and technical support.
for manual data entry, phone calls and numerous
Connect with us through chat 24/7 in the
logins for payer websites. Information we UnitedHealthcare Provider Portal. For
send back to you for these transactions is additional contact information, visit our
automatically loaded back into your system. Contact us page.
Learn more at UHCProvider.com/edi. See UHCprovider.com/portal for additional
information.
UnitedHealthcare Provider Portal
Our secure, provider portal is where you go to get
work done electronically 24/7. The portal includes
an ever-expanding list of tools to help you:
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Tools You Can Use (cont.) HHoommee
To access the portal: understand a patient’s needs
• From any page on UHCprovider.com > at the time of care. This helps providers deliver
Sign In more immediate value to patients and achieve
• Enter your One Healthcare ID and password better results for their practice with reliable, up-
to-date information. It may also save significant
New user? Get started at
money and administrative hours by reducing the
UHCprovider.com/access.
need to call UnitedHealthcare Customer Service
or log into another platform.
Other tools, resources and
education Learn more at UHCprovider.com/POCA.
UnitedHealthcare Data Exchange Program
Patient Care Opportunity Report (PCOR)
Share important member Enterprise Clinical Data
and Practice Assist
and Platforms (ECDP) team to help us:
Check who may be due for screenings and • Identify and address care opportunities
tests, and who may be at risk for non-adherence • Report accurate data to CMS and NCQA
to their medications. The PCOR is compiled • Reach our goal of improving health care
monthly from medical and pharmacy claims and outcomes while lowering health care costs
supplemental data. You can check it daily to view
Email ecdiops@uhc.com for more information.
care opportunities tied to the following
measure types:
• CMS Star Ratings UnitedHealthcare education and training
• HEDIS We provide a full range of training resources
• Pharmacy compliance including self-paced courses and
• Value-based contracting instructor-led sessions.
Practice Assist is a workflow management tool The courses include:
that enables health care professionals to manage • Featured courses
patient care opportunities and suspect medical • CME credit courses
conditions across multiple health plans. • Clinical tools
• Coding Corner
Access your PCOR within Practice Assist
• Delegated providers
under Provider Reports. Learn more at
• Digital solutions
UHCprovider.com/portal.
• Instructor-led learning events
• Plans and products
Point of Care Assist®
• Smart Edits
Compatible with Athena, Allscripts,
• State specific training
eClinicalWorks and NextGen EMR systems
• Veterans Affairs Community Care Network
Point of Care Assist integrates patient’s (VA CCN)
UnitedHealthcare medical records with electronic
Get started at UHCprovider.com/training.
medical records (EMRs) to provide real-time
insights – clinical, labs, prior authorizations,
cost transparency – making it easier for you to
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Tools You Can Use (cont.) HHoommee
OptumHealth Education
OptumHealth Education, a UnitedHealth Group
company, offers credit-based continuing
education classes for several physical and mental
health conditions. The courses are designed to
help improve patient care delivery. Learn more at
optumhealtheducation.com.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

UnitedHealthcare Social Drivers of Home
Health (SDoH) Protocol
Improving the lives of the members SDoH are non-clinical societal and environmental
we serve conditions, such as lack of access to adequate
food and health care, housing, transportation and
Tools and resources helpful in addressing
education, along with unsafe environment, lack
SDoH are available at UHCprovider.com >
of adequate social support, employment and
Resource Library > Patient Health and Safety
behavioral stability support that prevent
> Social Drivers of Health
individuals from accessing health care they need.
• Studies estimate that social drivers of health
(SDoH) have a bigger influence on health than Common codes for reporting SDoH
clinical care, finding 60% of a person’s health is
ICD-10
driven by social, behavioral and environmental
• Z55 - Z65: Should also be reported as part of an
factors like their education, income and
office visit using (E/M) codes
race/ethnicity
• Entire list of ICD-10 codes is at UHCprovider.com
• Health care professionals can help
> Resource Library > Patient Health and Safety >
patients overcome
Social Drivers of Health
SDoH barriers by gaining a better
understanding of the scope of factors CPT®
influencing the treatment process • SDoH should be reported as part of an office
visit using (E/M) codes such as 99204/99214
The value of using Z codes
(Moderate Complexity) and 99205/99215
Screening patients raises awareness of member (High Complexity)
specific SDoH needs. Through the use and • 96160: Administration of patient-focused
documentation of ICD-10 Z codes, health risk assessment instrument (e.g., health
UnitedHealthcare can closely align with patients’ hazard appraisal)
needs and develop innovative solutions. • 96161: Administration of caregiver-focused
health risk assessment instrument (e.g.,
The UnitedHealthcare SDoH Protocol strongly
depression inventory) for the benefit of
encourages providers to document SDoH by using
the patient
ICD-10 diagnostic code(s) (or successor diagnostic
codes) in the member’s medical record.
Read the full UnitedHealthcare
Unless prohibited by federal or state law, this
Protocol
protocol applies to all UnitedHealthcare’s
members, including UnitedHealthcare Medicare Reference the full UnitedHealthcare SDoH
Advantage, Medicaid and Individual Group Market Protocol as well as our self-paced training, tools
(Exchange) plans. and SDoH resources for more information.
We encourage all health care professionals to
remain current on SDoH ICD-10 codes, as they may
be updated from time to time through expansion
efforts supported by the Gravity Project.
1 Schroeder, SA. NEJM 2007; 357: 1221-1228.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

UnitedHealthcare Social Drivers of Home
Health (SDoH) Protocol (cont.)
Calls to action
• Routinely screen, document and submit the appropriate ICD-10 code(s) when a
patient is impacted by SDoH
• If you’re not sure which screening tool to use, the PRAPARE Screening Tool is
nationally recognized and can be used for reference
• Focus on 3 key domains:
– Food insecurity: Z59.41
– Transportation insecurity: Z59.82
– Housing instability: Z59.8
1 Schroeder, SA. NEJM 2007; 357: 1221-1228.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Home
Systems Measures
HEDIS Electronic Clinical Data Systems (ECDS) measures are designed
for payer or health system reporting. These measures use digital clinical
data sources containing member information and allows for this
information to be used to close gaps in care.
Why is ECDS important? What type of data gets
collected for ECDS?
The National Committee for Quality Assurance
(NCQA) implemented ECDS to help move measures
Organizations may use several data sources to
towards a more digital future. There is potential
provide complete information about the quality
for traditional reporting to transition to ECDS
of health services delivered to its members. Data
reporting, which may impact rates and incentives.
systems that may be eligible for HEDIS ECDS
That’s why it’s important for you to connect with
reporting include, but are not limited to:
your UnitedHealthcare representative if you’re
• Administrative claims
currently not sharing clinical data electronically.
• Member eligibility files
UnitedHealthcare prefers CCD files that comply
with the most current HL7 standards. • Electronic health records
• Clinical registries
What’s the difference between
• Health information exchanges
traditional HEDIS measures and
• Administrative claims systems
ECDS measures?
• Disease/case management registries
ECDS is a streamlined approach to closing care
gaps to help reduce the administrative burden and What are the requirements
resources traditional reporting requires of to report ECDS?
providers and UnitedHealthcare.
Per NCQA, to qualify for HEDIS ECDS reporting,
Although these measures can be closed via practitioners or practitioner groups that are
administrative claims, this reporting category accountable for clinical services provided to
encourages pursuing clinical data often found in members must not be prevented from accessing
electronic medical record systems. The goal is to any data used by a health plan for quality measure
promote the integration of clinical information by reporting, regardless of the initial Source System
automatically transferring needed data for gap of Record (SSoR). Each SSoR is a database where,
closure. ECDS measures allow for plans to view through integrity testing, the data structure is
quality care prospectively as opposed to reviewing standardized so it can be electronically extracted
quality care retrospectively. for HEDIS ECDS reporting.
* Member may use any pharmacy in the network, but may not receive preferred retail pharmacy pricing. Pharmacies in the
Preferred Retail Pharmacy Network may not be available in all areas. Co-pays apply after deductible.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Home
Systems Measures
The sources are prioritized into 4 categories: • Health information exchange (HIE)/clinical registry
• Electronic health record (EHR)/personal health • Case management registry
record (PHR) (the system of data origin such as
• Administrative
laboratory, pharmacy, pathology, radiology)
* Member may use any pharmacy in the network, but may not receive preferred retail pharmacy pricing. Pharmacies in the
Preferred Retail Pharmacy Network may not be available in all areas. Co-pays apply after deductible.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Advancing Health Equity Home
Our mission is to help people live healthier lives and make the health system
work better for everyone. To fulfill this mission, advancing health equity plays
an important role. Health equity means giving people access to what they need
to achieve better health outcomes. It also means getting rid of unfair barriers
to receiving health care based on race or ethnicity, culture, gender, geographic
location, disability, sexual orientation or income. Commonly referred to as
leveling the playing field, a commitment to equity requires looking at how the
history of communities has shaped their present realities to identify gaps in
access and provide greater care.
Why Is sharing socio-demographic How you can help?
data important? • Survey your patients at least annually for
• Helps identify and address health inequities that socio-demographic data and social drivers of
may exist amongst the populations we serve health (e.g., housing, transportation,
• Helps meet regulatory, compliance and quality food insecurities)
organization requirements (e.g., NCQA, CMS, • Give members the option to choose not to
state, and federal agencies) answer, instead of leaving blank
• Allows for future bi-directional sharing of data • Avoid allowing for an option of unknown
with critical stakeholders, including providers • Include a disclaimer on how the data will be
and employers protected and used
• Improves the overall member experience by – This information is confidential and will be used
addressing people by their self-identified pre- to promote equity in health care. It will not be
ferred pronouns and/or name used to deny coverage or care, in benefit
• Self-reported (direct data) is the most accurate decisions or to discriminate in any form.
reflection of the population • Categorical suggestions from the Office of
• Helps to identify resources and needs at the Management and Budget (OMB) and Centers for
community level to build consumer trust and Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
increase engagement in the following list:
Race Ethnicity Sexual orientation Gender identity Pronouns
What race(s) What ethnicity What are your
Do you think of Do you think of
best describe(s) best describes preferred
yourself as: yourself as:
you? you? pronouns?
American Indian Mexican, Mexican
Straight or
or Alaskan American, Female He/Him
heterosexual
Native Chicano/a
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Advancing Health Equity (cont.) Home
Race Ethnicity Sexual orientation Gender identity Pronouns
What race(s) What ethnicity What are your
Do you think of Do you think of
best describe(s) best describes preferred
yourself as: yourself as:
you? you? pronouns?
Lesbian, gay or
Asian Cuban Male She/Her
homosexual
Black or African
Guatemalan Bisexual Non-Binary They/Them
American
Something else Transgender
Middle Eastern
(e.g., queer, Female/Trans
or Northern Puerto Rico Other
pansexual, Woman/
African
asexual) Male-to-female
Native Hawaiian Transgender Male/
Choose Not
or Other Pacific Salvadorian Don't Know Trans Man/Female-
to Answer
Islander to-Man
Another Hispanic,
Choose Not to Additional Gender
White Latino, Spanish
Answer Category or other
Origin
Two or More Not Hispanic or Choose Not to
Races Latino Answer
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Language Diversity of Home
Membership (LDM)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Definition
Percentage of all members enrolled at any time during the measurement year by preferred
written and spoken languages.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Direct Member Collection
• Medicaid
• Medicare
• Exchange/Market Place
International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
ISO is used for the representation of the world’s languages and language groups.
ISO language codes are the standard for linguistic codification worldwide. The standard sets
are ISO 639: Subsets ISO 639-1, ISO 639-2, ISO 639-3 for language codes.
ISO 639-1 ISO 639-2 ISO 639-3
Macro Languages X
Collection of Languages X X
Living Languages X X X
Extinct Languages X X
Historical Languages X X
Ancient Languages X X X
Constructed Languages X X
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion
There are no exclusions for this measure.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Language Diversity of Home
Membership (LDM) (cont.)
Tips and best practices for collecting demographic data
• Collecting language preference information • Providing this information should always be
directly from patients or their caregivers is an voluntary, and staff should be attentive to
important practice in healthcare organizations. patients who feel uncomfortable or explicitly
- It is important to collect all of the following in state that they do not want to respond by
regard to language: allowing the patient a choose not to respond or
o English proficiency declined option.
• Tip: Responses should include very well, • Key components to consider:
well, not well, not at all - Collect data directly from the patient or their
o Preferred spoken language for health care designated representative.
• Tip: Avoid using “preferred language,” - Provide a clear rationale or reason for
instead ensure the question denotes it collecting this information.
is seeking the patients preferred o Research shows that patients are most
“spoken” language comfortable providing this information
• Example: “What is your preferred spoken when told why it is being collected and how
language for health care?” it will be used.
o Preferred written language for health care o Examples include: "We want to make sure
that all our patients get the best care
• Tip: Avoid using “preferred language,”
possible and have the best experience.
instead ensure the question denotes it
We would like you to tell us your preferred
is seeking the patients preferred
written and spoken language preferences
“written” language
so that we can offer patients translation
• Example: “What is your preferred written
services, provide materials in different
language for health care?”
languages and build trust between patients
• Tip: Ensure Braille is included as an option and healthcare providers, leading to
o Other Languages Spoken better patient outcomes and continued
• To the best of your ability, collect language engagement in healthcare.”
preferences at the most granular level possible.
• Storing this information in an electronic format
is also recommended whenever possible.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Race and Ethnicity Diversity of Home
Membership (RDM)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Definition
Percentage of all members enrolled at any time during the measurement year by race and ethnicity.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Direct Member Collection
• Medicaid
• Medicare
• Exchange/Market Place
Data collection
We encourage you to collect race and ethnicity at the granular level to better understand the
health needs of the population you serve.
Examples of data collection categories are posted below.
Please note: This list is not inclusive of all races/ethnicity selections. Granular or detailed data
collection is preferred when possible.
• Allow the patient to select multiple values for instances where a patient belongs to 2 or more races ·
• Include a write-in option, for instances where a patient may select “some other race"
• Avoid using “unknown” as a selection
Race Ethnicity
American Indian or Alaska Native Not Hispanic or Latino
Chinese Hispanic or Latino
Vietnamese • Chilean • Nicaraguan
Asian Indian • Costa Rican • Puerto Rican
Korean • Cuban • Salvadoran
Japanese • Dominican • Spanish
Black or African American • Guatemalan • Venezuelan
Middle Eastern or North African • Honduran • Other
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander • Mexican – Write-in option
White
Some other race
Prefer not to answer or decline
• Write-in option
Prefer not to answer or decline
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Race and Ethnicity Diversity of Home
Membership (RDM)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion
There are no exclusions for this measure. Health Plans and providers are expected to collect this
information on all members/patients.
Tips and best practices for collecting demographic data
• Collecting race, ethnicity, and disability o Examples include: "We want to make sure
information directly from patients or their that all our patients get the best care
caregivers is an important practice in possible. We would like you to tell us your
healthcare organizations. racial/ethnic background so that we can
• Storing this information in an electronic format review the treatment that all patients receive
is also recommended whenever possible. and make sure that everyone gets the
• Providing this information should always be highest quality of care."
voluntary, and staff should be attentive to - Determine whether your organization will
patients who feel uncomfortable or explicitly use broad or granular categories based on its
state that they do not want to respond by
capacity. If using predefined categories,
allowing the patient a choose not to respond or
decide whether you will utilize the minimum
declined option.
required categories, such as those defined by
• Key components to consider: the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
- Collect data directly from the patient or their as listed above, or if you will provide more
designated representative. detailed options.
- Provide a clear rationale or reason for collecting o Recommendations obtained via American
this information. Hospital Association: AHA Disparities Toolkit:
o Research shows that patients are most - AHA Disparities Toolkit | IFDHE
comfortable providing this information - TRAININGSlides2007.ppt (live.com)
when told why it is being collected and how it - Collecting the Data: The Nuts and Bolts |
will be used. IFDHE (aha.org)
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Advanced Care Planning (ACP)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of adults ages 66 to 80 with advanced illness, an indication
of frailty or who are receiving palliative care, and adults ages 81 and
older who had evidence of Advance care planning in the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • None Administrative
• Claim/encounter data
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Advance care planning
CPT®/CPT II 99483, 99497, 1123F, 1124F, 1157F, 1158F
HCPCS S0257
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z66
SNOMED 310305009, 425392003, 425396000, 425397009, 425393008, 3041000175100,
425394002, 3021000175108, 3011000175104, 425395001, 4921000175109,
713603004, 310302007, 310303002, 3061000175101, 3031000175106, 310301000,
713600001, 87691000119105, 713662007, 714361002, 713665009, 713602009,
713058002, 423606002, 699388000, 714748000, 719239007, 719238004,
719240009, 713580008
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Advanced Care Planning (ACP) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure to close care opportunity
Measurement year • Advanced directive, actionable medical orders, living will,
surrogate decision maker are all examples of advance
care planning
• Telehealth visits are acceptable to meet this numerator
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps This data can include, but is not limited to, race,
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes ethnicity, language, sexual orientation, gender
such as Advance care planning. It can also identity, pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
reduce the need for some chart review. disability status.
Advance care plans can be accepted as – As part of the clinical structured data exchange
supplemental data, reducing the need for program, we encourage you to include this
some chart review. Please contact your demographic data with any structured data
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss file or CCD. Your information is confidential.
clinical data exchange opportunities. UnitedHealthcare will keep personally identifiable
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to information confidential and
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social won’t disclose any information without your
needs ofthose we serve and decreasing health written consent.
inequities across the care continuum.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Care for Older Adults (COA) –
Functional status assessment
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of adults 66 and older who had evidence of a Functional
status assessment in the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare Special Needs • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
Plans (SNP) • Claim/encounter data
• Medical record
documentation
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Functional status assessment
CPT®/CPT II 1170F, 99483
HCPCS G0438, G0439
SNOMED 304492001, 3585880002, 19668100000107
Required exlusions(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Care for Older Adults (COA) –
Functional status assessment (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail including,
to close Care opportunity but not limited to
• Functional status Standardized functional status • Functional status
assessment must assessment tool and results assessment forms
occur within the • Health history and physical
Assessment of Instrumental Activities
measurement year • Home health records
of Daily Living (IADL) or at least 4 of
• Occupational therapy notes
• Functional status the following assessed:
• Physical therapy notes
assessment • Chores, such as laundry
• Progress notes
conducted in an • Cleaning/housework
• Skilled nursing facility
acute inpatient
• Cooking/meal prep minimum data set
setting will not meet
• Driving or using public (MDS) form
compliance transportation
• SOAP notes
• Telehealth visits are • Grocery shopping
acceptable to meet • Home repair
this numerator • Paying bills or other financial tasks
• Taking prescribed medications
• Using a phone
Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) or at
least 5 of the following assessed:
• Bathing
• Dressing
• Eating meals/snacks
• Getting up and down from sitting
or lying position
• Using the restroom
• Walking
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Care for Older Adults (COA) –
Functional status assessment (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity such as Functional status assessment. It can
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to also reduce the need for some chart review.
see members with open care opportunities. – A dding CPT II modifier codes to a claim may
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare result in the gap not closing
representative can help.
• Functional status assessments can be accepted
• Always clearly document the date of service of
as supplemental data, reducing the need
the Functional status assessment
for some chart review. Please contact your
• A Functional status assessment done in an acute UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
inpatient setting will not meet compliance clinical data exchange opportunities.
• A Functional status assessment limited to an • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
acute or single condition, event or body system, understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
such as lower back or leg, will not needs of those we serve and decreasing health
meet compliance inequities across the care continuum. This data
• The following notations will not can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
meet compliance: language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
– “Functional status reviewed” doesn’t
disability status.
indicate that a complete Functional status
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
assessment was performed
structured data exchange program, we
• Documentation of “normal motor/sensory”
encourage you to include this demographic
during an exam or a checked box next to
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
“normal motor/sensory” on a neurological exam
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
isn’t enough evidence for a Functional
will keep personally identifiable information
status assessment
confidential and won't disclose any
• A Functional status assessment may be
information without your written consent.
conducted with the member in various manners
(phone, in person, virtually, etc.) and is not
limited to being completed by clinicians
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Care for Older Adults (COA) – Medication review
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure.
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of adults ages 66 and older who had a Medication review by
a clinical pharmacist or prescribing practitioner and the presence of a Medication list in the
medical record or Transitional care management services in the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare Special Needs • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
Plans (SNP) • Claim/encounter data
• Medical record
documentation
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Medication list
CPT®/CPT II 1159F
This code (Medication list documented) must be submitted with 1160F (review of
all medications by a prescribing practitioner or clinical pharmacist documented)
on the same date of service.
HCPCS G8427
SNOMED 428191000124101, 432311000124109
Medication review
CPT®/CPT II 99605, 99606, 90863, 99483, 1160F
SNOMED 719327002, 719328007, 719329004, 461651000124104
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Care for Older Adults (COA) – Medication review
(cont.)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Transitional care management
CPT®/CPT II 99495, 99496
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Care for Older Adults (COA) – Medication review
(cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or Medical record detail
procedure to close including, but not limited to
care opportunity
• Medication list must be included in the Medication review • Health history and
medical record and Medication review or dated clinician’s physical
must be completed by a prescribing note that says the • Medication list
provider or clinical pharmacist member is not taking
• Progress notes
• A Medication list, signed and dated any medications
• SOAP notes
during the measurement year by
the appropriate practitioner type —
prescribing practitioner or clinical
pharmacist – meets compliance
• A notation within the record that
the medications were reviewed. If a
notation is included, the signature is
not needed.
• Documentation that the medications
aren’t tolerated isn’t an exclusion for
this measure
• A review of side effects for a single
medication at the time of prescription
alone does not meet compliance.
• Medication review conducted in an
acute inpatient setting will not
meet compliance
• Practitioner is not required to be the
member’s primary or ongoing care
provider; any provider meeting the
requirement of prescribing practitioner
or clinical pharmacist can complete
the Medication review
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Care for Older Adults (COA) – Medication review
(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity – A review of side effects for a single
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to medication at the time of prescription alone
see members with open care opportunities. will not meet compliance
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare – The use of CPT® Category II codes helps
representative can help. UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes
• Always clearly document the date of service of such as Medication reviews. It can also reduce
the Medication review or notation of the need for some chart review.
no medications – Adding CPT II modifier codes to a claim may
• A Medication review conducted in an acute result in the gap not closing
inpatient setting will not meet compliance • Medication reviews and the presence
• A Medication review may be conducted with of a Medication list can be accepted as
a member over the phone if the clinician is a supplemental data, reducing the need for
prescriber or clinical pharmacist. A registered some chart review. Please contact your
nurse can collect the list of current medications UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
from the member during the call, but there clinical data exchange opportunities.
must be evidence that the appropriate • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
practitioner reviewed the list. understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
– For example: An electronic signature with needs of those we serve and decreasing health
credentials on the Medication list inequities across the care continuum. This data
• The Medication review must include all of the can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
member’s medications, including prescription language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
and over-the-counter medications and herbal pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
or supplemental therapies disability status.
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
• A Medication list signed and dated within
structured data exchange program, we
the measurement year by the prescribing
encourage you to include this demographic
practitioner or clinical pharmacist meets
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
the criteria
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
– The practitioner’s signature along with a
will keep personally identifiable information
Medication list in the member’s chart is
confidential and won't disclose any
considered evidence that the medications
information without your written consent.
were reviewed
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Chlamydia Screening (CHL)
New for 2025
Added
Yes!
• Members who were assigned male at birth is now a required exclusion
Supplemental
Updated data accepted
• References to women were replaced with members recommended
for routine Chlamydia screening
Definition
Percentage of members recommended for routine Chlamydia screening ages 16–24 who were identified
as sexually active and had at least 1 test to screen for chlamydia during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Chlamydia screening test
CPT®/CPT II 87110, 87270, 87320, 87490, 87491, 87492, 87810
LOINC 14463-4, 14464-2, 14465-9, 14467-5, 14474-1, 14513-6, 16600-9, 21190-4, 21191-2, 21613-
5, 23838-6, 31775-0, 34710-4, 42931-6, 43304-5, 43404-3, 44806-8, 44807-6, 45068-4,
45069-2, 45072-6, 45073-4, 45075-9, 45084-1, 45089-0, 45090-8, 45091-6, 45093-2,
45095-7, 4993-2, 50387-0, 53925-4, 53926-2, 57287-5, 6353-7, 6356-0, 6357-8, 80360-
1, 80361-9, 80362-7, 80363-5, 80364-3, 80365-0, 80367-6, 82306-2, 87949-4, 87950-2,
88221-7, 89648-0, 91860-7, 91873-0
SNOMED 104175002, 104281002, 104282009, 104290009, 117775008, 121956002, 121957006,
121958001, 121959009, 122173003, 122254005, 122321005, 122322003, 134256004,
134289004, 171120003, 285586000, 310861008, 310862001, 315087006, 315095005,
315099004, 390784004, 390785003, 395195000, 398452009, 399193003, 407707008,
442487003, 707982002
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Chlamydia Screening (CHL) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Members with sex assigned at birth (LOINC code 76689-9) Any time in the member's
of male (LOINC code LA2-8) history through Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
Test must be performed Chlamydia screening test • Consultation reports
within the measurement year • Health history and physical
• Lab reports
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Chlamydia Screening (CHL) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Additional information on chlamydia screening
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to is available at brightfutures.aap.org
see members with open care opportunities. • In assessing sexually active members
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare recommended for Chlamydia screening
representative can help. ages 16-24 years, consider standard orders for
• Chlamydia screening may not be captured via chlamydia urine testing as part of the
claims if the service is performed and billed office visit
under prenatal and postpartum global billing. • According to the American Academy of
Chlamydia screening can be captured as Pediatrics (AAP), pediatric patients should be
supplemental lab data using our Data assessed for risk of chlamydia infection
Exchange Program.
• Lab results for chlamydia screening can be
• The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention accepted as supplemental data, reducing the
recommends self-obtained vaginal specimens need for some chart review. Please contact your
for asymptomatic members UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
• Self-obtained vaginal specimens are cleared by clinical data exchange opportunities.
the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) for
collection in a clinical setting
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Osteoporosis Management in Women
Who Had a Fracture (OMW)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Yes!
Definition Supplemental
data accepted
Percentage of women ages 67–85 who suffered a fracture and who had
either a bone mineral density (BMD) test or prescription for a drug to
treat osteoporosis within 6 months of the fracture (does not include
fractures to the finger, toe, face or skull).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Administrative
• Claim/encounter data
• Pharmacy data
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Bone mineral density tests
CPT®/CPT II 76977, 77078, 77080, 77081, 77085, 77086
ICD-10 Procedure BP48ZZ1, BP49ZZ1, BP4GZZ1, BP4HZZ1, BP4LZZ1, BP4MZZ1, BP4NZZ1, BP4PZZ1,
BQ00ZZ1, BQ01ZZ1, BQ03ZZ1, BQ04ZZ1, BR00ZZ1, BR07ZZ1, BR09ZZ1, BR0GZZ1
SNOMED 22059005, 312681000, 385342005, 391057001, 391058006, 391059003,
391060008, 391061007, 391062000, 391063005, 391064004, 391065003,
391066002, 391069009, 391070005, 391071009, 391072002, 391073007,
391074001, 391076004,391078003, 391079006, 391080009, 391081008,
391082001, 4211000179102, 440083004, 440099005, 440100002,
449781000, 707218004
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Osteoporosis Management in Women
Who Had a Fracture (OMW) (cont.)
Osteoporosis medication therapy
HCPCS J0897, J1740, J3110, J3111, J3489, Q5136
Long-acting osteoporosis medications (during inpatient stay only)
HCPCS J0897, J1740, J3489, Q5136
Dispensed at least 1 of the following osteoporosis medications within 180 days of their discharge
for a fracture:
Drug category Medications
Bisphosphonates • Alendronate • Risedronate
• Alendronate-cholecalciferol • Zoledronic acid
• Ibandronate
Other agents • Abaloparatide • Raloxifene
• Denosumab • Romosozumab
• Teriparatide
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Osteoporosis Management in Women
Who Had a Fracture (OMW) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Members receiving palliative care During the intake period through
the end of the measurement year
Members ages 81 and older as of Dec. 31 of the measurement Frailty diagnoses must be on
year who had at least 2 diagnoses of frailty* different dates of service during
the intake period through the end
of the measurement year
• Members ages 67–80 as of Dec. 31 of the measurement year • Frailty diagnoses must be on 2
with frailty and advanced illness. Members must meet both different dates of service during
frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify as an exclusion: the intake period through the end
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of of the measurement year
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims • Advanced illness diagnosis
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent l must be in the measurement
ab (POS 81). year or year prior to the
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following: measurement year
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do
not include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis
was from an independent
lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication donepezil,
donepezil-memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine
or memantine
Medicare members ages 67 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
• Living long term in an institution*
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Osteoporosis Management in Women
Who Had a Fracture (OMW) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
• BMD test must take BMD test • Medication list
place within 6 months of • Progress notes
the fracture
• If the fracture resulted in
an inpatient stay, a BMD
test administered during
the stay will close the
care opportunity
• Osteoporosis medication Osteoporosis medications
must be dispensed within identified through
6 months of the fracture Pharmacy data
• Documentation that
the medications aren’t
tolerated is not an
exclusion for
this measure
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Osteoporosis Management in Women
Who Had a Fracture (OMW) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Women at risk for osteoporosis should be
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to prescribed a bone density screening every 2
see members with open care opportunities. years. At-risk women include those who are:
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare – At increased risk for falls or have a history
representative can help. of falls
• The post-fracture treatment period to close this – Being monitored to assess their response
care opportunity is only 6 months. Please see to, or efficacy of, a Federal Drug
members for an office visit as soon as possible Administration (FDA) -approved
after an event occurs. osteoporosis drug therapy regime
• Osteoporosis medication must be filled using a – Diagnosed with primary hyperparathyroidism
member’s Part D prescription drug benefit
– Estrogen deficient
• Osteoporosis therapies are captured through
– On long-term steroid therapy
medical claims
• Bone density screening is a covered benefit for
• To help prevent women from being included
most benefit plans
in this measure incorrectly, please check that
• Best practice is to schedule a BMD at a time
fracture codes are used appropriately — and
it is recommended and ordered, prior to the
not before a fracture has been verified through
member leaving the clinic
diagnostic imaging. If a fracture code was
• Bone mineral density testing codes can be
submitted in error, please submit a corrected
accepted as supplemental data, reducing the
claim to fix the misdiagnosis and remove
need for some chart review. Please contact your
the member from this measure.
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
• A referral for a BMD will not close this clinical data exchange opportunities.
care opportunity
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Osteoporosis Management in Women
Who Had a Fracture (OMW) (cont.)
Example
Fracture date: March 2, 2025
Important note: The index episode start date (IESD) is the date you begin counting for the
appropriate testing or treatment — IESD plus 180 days.
Scenario 1: Inpatient Hospital stay with no direct transfer
Admission date: March 2, 2025
Discharge date with no direct transfer: March 4, 2025, IESD
Scenario 2: Inpatient Hospital stay with direct transfer
Admission date to second facility: March 3, 2025
Discharge date from second facility: March 8, 2025, IESD
Scenario 3: Outpatient or observation/emergency department (ED) visit
Visit date: March 6, 2025, IESD
Important note: This scenario assumes the member didn’t go to a hospital on the day of their fall and/
or wasn’t admitted for inpatient stay.
Fracture date: March 2, 2025
Fracture
diagnosis Bone mineral Osteoporosis Dispensed Rx to
setting IESD density test therapy treat osteoporosis
Scenario 1: Discharge During inpatient During inpatient On IESD or within
Inpatient date: March 4, stay: stay: 180 days after IESD:
Hospital stay 2025 March 2–4, 2025 March 2–4, 2025 March 4–Aug. 31, 2025
with no direct (long-acting
On IESD or
transfer osteoporosis
within 180 days
medications only)
after IESD:
March 4–Aug. 31,
2025
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Osteoporosis Management in Women
Who Had a Fracture (OMW) (cont.)
Fracture date: March 2, 2025
Fracture
diagnosis Bone mineral Osteoporosis Dispensed Rx to
setting IESD density test therapy treat osteoporosis
Scenario 2: Discharge During inpatient During inpatient On IESD or within
Inpatient date from stay: stay: 180 days after IESD:
Hospital stay second March 2–8, 2025 March 2–8, 2025 March 8–Sept. 4, 2025
with direct facility: (long-acting
On IESD or
transfer March 8, 2025 osteoporosis
within 180 days
medications only)
after IESD:
March 8–Sept. 4,
2025
Scenario 3: Visit date: On IESD or within On IESD or within On IESD or within
Outpatient or March 6, 2025 180 days after 180 days after 180 days after IESD:
observation/ IESD: IESD: March 6–Sept. 2, 2025
ED visit March 6–Sept. 2, March 6–Sept. 2,
2025 2025
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of deliveries of live births on or between Oct. 8 of the year
prior to the measurement year and Oct. 7 of the measurement year. The
measure includes the following 2 indicators:
• Timeliness of prenatal care – Percentage of women who had a live birth that received a prenatal care
visit in the first trimester, on or before the enrollment start date or within 42 days of enrollment in a
UnitedHealthcare health plan
• Postpartum care – Percentage of women who had a live birth that had a postpartum visit on or
between 7–84 days after delivery
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Hybrid
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Medical record documentation
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Prenatal bundled services
CPT®/CPT II 59400, 59425, 59426, 59510, 59610, 59618
HCPCS H1005
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC)
Stand-alone prenatal visits
CPT®/CPT II 99500, 0500F, 0501F, 0502F
HCPCS H1000, H1001, H1002, H1003, H1004
SNOMED 169712008, 169713003, 169714009, 169715005, 169716006, 169717002, 169718007,
169719004, 169720005, 169721009, 169722002, 169723007, 169724001,
169725000, 169726004, 169727008, 424525001, 409010002, 169602005,
169603000, 169600002, 135892000, 713076009, 702396006, 386235000,
171058001, 440309009, 441839001, 440227005, 439165004, 440670004,
440047008, 440638004, 439908001, 440671000, 440536005, 440669000,
439733009, 439816006, 386322007, 58932009, 397931005, 406145006 ,
700256000, 171061000, 171060004, 171062007, 171064008, 66961001, 171057006,
171059009, 171054004, 171056002, 171063002, 171055003, 710970004,
17629007, 422808006, 18114009, 424441002, 424619006, 134435003, 702738006,
713386003, 702741002, 702743004, 702744005, 702742009, 713387007,
702737001, 713238008, 713235006, 713237003, 702736005, 713241004,
713234005, 702739003, 713233004, 702740001, 713239000, 713240003,
713242006, 717794008, 717795009
Prenatal visits with diagnosis of pregnancy
CPT®/CPT II 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004, 98005, 98006, 98007, 98008, 98009, 98010,
98011, 98012, 98013, 98014, 98015, 98016, 98966, 98967, 98968, 98970, 98971,
98972, 98980, 98981, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213, 99214,
99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99421, 99422, 99423, 99441, 99442, 99443,
99457, 99458, 99483
HCPCS G0463, T1015, G0071, G2010, G2012, G2250, G2251, G2252
SNOMED 77406008, 281036007, 185317003, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003,
401267002
Postpartum bundled services
CPT®/CPT II 59400, 59410, 59510, 59515, 59610, 59614, 59618, 59622
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC) (cont.)
Postpartum care
CPT®/CPT II 57170, 58300, 59430, 99501, 0503F
HCPCS G0101
SNOMED 408884008, 408883002, 408886005, 133907004, 384635005, 440085006,
431868002, 384636006, 169770008, 169771007, 169772000, 384634009,
169762003, 133906008, 409018009, 409019001, 717810008
Encounter for postpartum care
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z01.411, Z01.419, Z01.42, Z30.430, Z39.1, Z39.2
Cervical cytology
CPT®/CPT II 88141, 88142, 88143, 88147, 88148, 88150, 88152, 88153, 88164, 88165, 88166, 88167,
88174, 88175
HCPCS G0123, G0124, G0141, G0143, G0144, G0145, G0147, G0148, P3000, P3001
LOINC 10524-7, 18500-9, 19762-4, 19765-7, 19766-5, 19774-9, 33717-0, 47527-7,
47528-5, 104866-9
SNOMED 1155766001, 168406009, 168407000, 168408005, 168410007, 168414003,
168415002, 168416001, 168424006, 171149006, 250538001, 269957009,
269958004, 269959007, 269960002, 269961003, 269963000, 275805003,
281101005, 309081009, 310841002, 310842009, 416030007, 416032004,
416033009, 416107004, 417036008, 439074000, 439776006, 439888000,
440623000, 441087007, 441088002, 441094005, 441219009, 441667007,
448651000124104, 62051000119105, 62061000119107, 700399008, 700400001,
98791000119102
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC) (cont.)
Acceptable provider types to render prenatal care services
• OB-GYN
• Physician
Any of the following who deliver prenatal care services under the direction of an OB-GYN
or certified provider:
• Certified Nurse Midwife (CNM)
• Nurse Practitioner (NP)
• Physician’s Assistant (PA)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Pregnancy didn’t result in a live birth Oct. 8 of the year prior to the
• Member wasn’t pregnant measurement year through Oct. 7
of the measurement year
• Delivery wasn’t in date parameters
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not
limited to
• Prenatal care visit must Prenatal care visit with an OB-GYN • Consultation reports
take place in the first or prenatal care provider, which must • Diagnostic reports
trimester, on or before include 1 of the following:
• Medical history
the enrollment start • A diagnosis of pregnancy or noted
• Prenatal flow sheets/
date or within 42 days positive pregnancy test result
ACOG form
of enrollment with the
• Auscultation for fetal heart tone
• Progress notes
health plan
• Documentation in a standard
• SOAP notes
• For prenatal visits
prenatal flowsheet
with a primary care
• Documentation of last menstrual
provider, a diagnosis
period (LMP), estimated date of
of pregnancy must be
delivery (EDD) or gestational age
included with any of
• Gravidity or parity
the tests listed to
the right • Complete obstetrical history
• A Pap test does not • Prenatal risk assessment and
count as a prenatal counseling/education
care visit and a • Fundal height
colposcopy alone
• Obstetric panel
does not meet
• Pelvic exam with obstetric
numerator
observations
compliance for
• Prenatal lab results including
prenatal
hematocrit, differential WBC count,
platelet count, hepatitis B surface
antigen, rubella antibody, syphilis test,
RBC antibody screen, Rh and ABO
blood typing Rubella antibody test/
titer with an Rh incompatibility (ABO/
Rh) blood typing
• TORCH antibody panel
• Ultrasound of pregnant uterus
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC) (cont.)
Important notes (cont.)
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
Documentation of care Postpartum visit to an OB-GYN or • Consultation reports
in an acute inpatient other prenatal care provider, or • Diagnostic reports
setting does not close the PCP, which must include 1 of
• Hospital delivery report
gap for postpartum care. the following:
• Medical history
• Assessment of breasts or breast
• Prenatal flow sheets/
feeding, weight, blood pressure
ACOG form
check and abdomen
• Progress notes
• Notation of postpartum care
• SOAP notes
• Perineal or cesarean incision/
wound check
• Screening for depression,
anxiety, tobacco use, substance
use disorder or preexisting
mental health disorders
• Pelvic exam
• Glucose screening for women
with gestational diabetes
• Documentation of infant care or
breastfeeding
• Documentation of resumption
of intercourse, birth spacing or
family planning
• Documentation of sleep/
fatigue
• Documentation of resumption
of physical activity or
attainment of healthy weight
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • A visit with a registered nurse will not meet
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to compliance. See acceptable provider
see members with open care opportunities. types above.
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare • When the prenatal care visit is with a PCP, the
representative can help. claim must include the prenatal visit, and a
• When submitting a claim for bundled maternity diagnosis of pregnancy
services, it is important to also submit separate • The CDC, American College of Obstetricians
claims for the pregnancy diagnosis office visit and Gynecologists, American College of Nurse
and postpartum visit with appropriate CPT® Midwives and American Academy of Family
Category II Codes Physicians all recommend that pregnant women
– Prenatal care: When submitting claim for receive the following immunizations:
initial pregnancy diagnosis visit (e.g., urine – A flu shot during any trimester of their
test, ultrasound), always include CPT® pregnancy to protect themselves and their
Category II 0500F as a no charge line item. newborn babies from flu
– Postpartum care: When submitting claim for – 1 dose of Tdap every pregnancy, preferably
first office postpartum visit, always include during early part of gestational weeks 27–36
CPT(R) Category II 0503F as a no charge
– Visit cdc.gov/vaccines/pregnancy for patient
line item
and provider resources
– If your electronic medical record (EMR)
• If your office submits CCDs to UnitedHealthcare
system allows macros that auto-populate
via our clinical data exchange program, please
CPT® Category II Codes when submitting a
ensure the CCD function within your EMR
claim for diagnostic tests (e.g., pregnancy
system is set up to send CPT II Codes in
urine test, ultrasound), please add
the extract
0500F (prenatal) when individual E/M
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps
codes are used
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes
• Ultrasound and lab results alone aren’t
such as prenatal and postpartum care. It can
considered a visit. They must be linked to an
also reduce the need for some chart review.
office visit with an appropriate practitioner to
• The American College of Obstetricians
count for this measure.
and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommends
• A Pap test alone doesn’t count as a prenatal care
implementation of the following
visit, but will count toward postpartum care as a
clinical workflows:
pelvic exam
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Prenatal and Postpartum Care (PPC) (cont.)
– Screen patients for depression/anxiety at • Services provided during a telephone visit or
least once during the prenatal and online assessment (e-visit/virtual check-in) will
postpartum visit, with additional frequency meet the criteria for numerator compliance
for higher risk women • Provide education to members on importance
– Use a screening tool validated for use during of prenatal and postpartum care for them and
pregnancy and the postpartum period to their baby
measure the level of risk, (i.e., Edinburgh • Identify members with ER visits who have a
Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) or Patient diagnosis of pregnancy and initiate timely
Health Questionnaire 9) follow-up
– Train all care team members on the • Assess and address potential barriers to
importance of depression screening and receiving care when pregnancy is confirmed
follow-up care
• Provide close monitoring and initiate relevant
– Establish a system to ensure follow-up for referrals for members who have had substance
diagnosis and treatment for abuse or mental health diagnosis
positive screenings
• Ensure available appointments exist to allow for
• Prenatal and postpartum codes can be accepted timely scheduling of members during their first
as supplemental data, reducing the need trimester or postpartum period
for some chart review. Please contact your
• For members who do not show or schedule
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
appointments, attempt to engage using a
clinical data exchange opportunities.
telephone or video visit to close the care gap
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
structured data exchange program, we
encourage you to include this demographic
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
will keep personally identifiable information
confidential and won't disclose any information
without your written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Asthma Medication Ratio (AMR)
New for 2025
Updated
- Deleted albuterol-budesonide from the asthma reliever medication table (technical update 3.31.2025)
- Revised the Asthma Controller Medications table
Definition
Percentage of members ages 5–64 who were identified as having persistent asthma and had a ratio of
controller medications to total asthma medications of 0.50 or greater during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • Pharmacy data
Medications
To comply with this measure, a member must have the appropriate ratio of controller medications
to total asthma medications. Multiple prescriptions for different oral medications dispensed on the
same day count as separate events. All inhalers of the same medication dispensed on the same day count
as 1 event. Multiple injections of the same or different medications count as separate events.
Asthma controller medications
Drug category Medications
Antibody • Omalizumab
inhibitors
Anti-interleukin-4 • Dupilumab
Anti-interleukin-5 • Benralizumab • Reslizumab
• Mepolizumab
Inhaled • Beclomethasone • Flunisolide
corticosteroids • Budesonide • Fluticasone
• Ciclesonide • Mometasone
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Asthma Medication Ratio (AMR) (cont.)
Drug category Medications
Inhaled steroid • Budesonide-formoterol • Fluticasone-vilanterol
combinations • Fluticasone-salmeterol • Formoterol-mometasone
Drug category Medications
Leukotriene • Montelukast • Zileuton
modifiers • Zafirlukast
Methylxanthines • Theophylline
Asthma reliever medications
Drug category Medications
Short-acting, • Albuterol
inhaled beta-2 • Levalbuterol
agonists
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Asthma Medication Ratio (AMR) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Members who weren’t dispensed an asthma controller or
reliever medication
Members who had a respiratory disease diagnosis that requires a Any time during a member’s
different approach than members with asthma; that may include history through Dec.31 of the
the following: measurement year
• Acute respiratory failure
• Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
• Chronic respiratory conditions due to fumes/vapors
• Cystic fibrosis
• Emphysema
• Obstructive chronic bronchitis
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Asthma Medication Ratio (AMR) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity – Consider prescribing 60–90 days supply of
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to controller medications
see members with open care opportunities. – Encourage patients to receive their
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare annual flu shot
representative can help. • National Institutes of Health guidelines
• Simplify treatment regimen, when possible: recommend using tools such as the childhood
– Use clear and simple language when and adult asthma control test along with an
providing directions on how to use inhalers asthma action plan to help members
manage their condition
– Help patients learn to identify and avoid
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
asthma triggers
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
– Educate patients on the difference between
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
controller and reliever medications and
inequities across the care continuum. This data
applicable usage
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
– Discuss asthma action plans(AAP) with
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
patients to ensure they know how to control
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
their asthma
disability status.
– Assess and reassess asthma symptoms and
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
the patient's AAP at every visit to determine
structured data exchange program, we
if more controller medication (or a higher
encourage you to include this demographic
dose) is required
data with any structured data file or
– Consider more frequent visits until the CCD. Your information is confidential.
patient is compliant UnitedHealthcare will keep personally
– Limit the number of auto-refill rescue identifiable information confidential and
medications (versus controller medications) won't disclose any information without your
that can be automatically refilled written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
Diabetes (BPD)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–75 with diabetes (Types 1 and 2) who have a blood pressure (BP)
reading of <140/90 mmHg in the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Medical record documentation
Codes
The following codes can be used to submit outcome results for this measure; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
Systolic blood pressure levels 130-139 mm Hg
CPT®/CPT II 3075F
Systolic blood pressure level <130 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3074F
Systolic blood pressure level >/=140 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3077F
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025
*Please continue to code using CPT II codes for a blood pressure
reading including a diastolic >90 and systolic >140, as it is important for
tracking and addressing quality of care and health outcomes.

HEDIS Measures Home
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
Diabetes (BPD) (cont.)
Diastolic blood pressure level 80-89 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3079F
Diastolic blood pressure level <80 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3078F
Diastolic blood pressure level >/=90 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3080F
*Please continue to code using CPT II codes for a blood pressure reading including a diastolic >90 and
systolic >140, as it is important for tracking and addressing quality of care and health outcomes.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
Diabetes (BPD) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
• Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the • Frailty diagnoses must be in the
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. Members measurement year on 2 different
must meet both frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify dates of service
as an exclusion: • Advanced illness diagnosis
– Frailty: At least 2 indications of frailty with different dates must be in the measurement
of service during the measurement year. Laboratory claims year or year prior to the
should not be used. measurement year
– Advanced Illness: Either of the following during the
measurement year or the year prior to the measurement
year:
o Advanced illness on at least 2 different dates of service.
Laboratory claims should not be used.
o Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil,
Donepezil-memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine
or memantine
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
• Living long term in an institution*
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
Diabetes (BPD) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
• BP reading must be BP reading taken or reported • Consultation reports
performed within the and recorded during the • Diabetic flow sheets
measurement year — measurement year via
• Progress notes
most recent BP result Outpatient visits, telephone
• Vitals sheet
of the year is the one or telehealth visits, e-visits,
measured virtual check-ins or non-acute
• BP readings taken on the inpatient visits.
same day the member
receives a common low-
intensity or preventive
procedure can be used.
Examples include, but
aren’t limited to:
– Eye exam with
dilating agents
– Injections (e.g.,
allergy, Depo-
Provera,® insulin,
lidocaine, steroid,
testosterone toradol
or vitamin B-12)
– Intrauterine device
(IUD) insertion
– Tuberculosis (TB) test
– Vaccinations
– Wart or mole removal
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
Diabetes (BPD) (cont.)
Important Notes (cont.)
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not
limited to
• BP readings taken in the BP reading taken during the • Consultation reports
following situations will not measurement year via: • Diabetic flow sheets
count toward compliance: - Outpatient visits
• Progress notes
– During an acute inpatient - Telephone or telehealth visits
• Vitals sheet
stay or an emergency - Virtual check-ins or e-visits
department visit - Non-acute inpatient visits
– On the same day as Member reported BP readings
a diagnostic test, or must be taken with a digital
diagnostic or therapeutic devise, in any of these visit
procedure that requires settings and documented
a change in diet or in member's medical record. Does
medication on or 1 day not require documentation that it
before the day of the test was taken with a digital device.
or procedure – with the Ranges and threshold will not
exception of a fasting blood meet the intent of the measure.
test. Examples include, but A specific BP result needs to
are not limited to: be documented.
• Colonoscopy
Documentation of ‘average
• Dialysis, infusions and BP’ will meet the intent of
chemotherapy the measure.
• Nebulizer treatment with
If multiple BPs were taken on
albuterol
the same day, the lowest systolic
• If the retrieval method is not and the lowest diastolic should
mentioned (i.e., manual/digital), represent the BP result for the
assume the method was digital date of service.
and is acceptable
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
Diabetes (BPD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • If a member’s initial BP reading is elevated
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to at the start of a visit, you can take multiple
see members with open care opportunities. readings during the same visit and use the
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare lowest diastolic and lowest systolic to document
representative can help. the overall reading. Retake the member’s BP
• It is important to document patient reported after they’ve had time to rest.
vitals in the official medical record when – For example: If a member’s first BP reading
conducting telehealth, telephone or online was 160/80 mmHg and the second reading
assessment visits. Please encourage patients to was 120/90 mmHg, use the 120 systolic of
use a digital device to track and report their BP the second reading and the 80 diastolic
during every visit. of the first reading to show a BP result of
• Always list the date of service and BP 120/80 mmHg
reading together • If your office submits CCDs to UnitedHealthcare
– If BP is listed on the vital flow sheet, it must via our clinical data exchange program, please
have a date of service ensure the CCD function within your EMR
system is set up to send CPT II Codes in
• Members who have an elevated BP during an
the extract
office visit in August, September or October
should be brought back in for a follow-up visit • The use of CPT® Category II codes helps
before Dec. 31. UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes
such as diastolic and systolic readings. It can
• Talk with members about what a lower goal is
also reduce the need for some chart review.
for a healthy BP reading
– Adding CPT II modifier codes to a claim may
– For example: 130/80 mmHg
result in the gap not closing
• Remind members who are NPO for a fasting lab
• BP readings can be accepted as supplemental
they should continue to take their
data, reducing the need for some chart
anti-hypertensive medications with a sip of
review. Please contact your UnitedHealthcare
water on the morning of their appointment
representative to discuss clinical data
• If your office uses manual blood pressure cuffs,
exchange opportunities.
don’t round up the BP reading
– For example: 138/89 mmHg rounded to
140/90 mmHg
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Blood Pressure Control for Patients With
Diabetes (BPD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social structured data exchange program, we
needs of those we serve and decreasing health encourage you to include this demographic
inequities across the care continuum. This data data with any structured data file or CCD.
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, Your information is confidential.
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, UnitedHealthcare will keep personally
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and identifiable information confidential and
disability status. won't disclose any information without your
written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–85 who had a diagnosis of hypertension (HTN) and whose blood
pressure (BP) was adequately controlled at <140/90 mmHg during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Hybrid
• Exchange/Marketplace • CMS Star Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation • Medical record documentation
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Pharmacy data
Codes
The following codes can be used to submit outcome results for this measure; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
Systolic blood pressure levels 130-139 mm Hg
CPT®/CPT II 3075F
Systolic blood pressure level <130 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3074F
Systolic blood pressure level >/=140 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3077F
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) (cont.)
Diastolic blood pressure level 80-89 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3079F
Diastolic blood pressure level <80 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3078F
Diastolic blood pressure level >/=90 mmHg
CPT®/CPT II 3080F
*Please continue to code using CPT II codes for a blood pressure reading including a diastolic >90 and
systolic >140, as it is important for tracking and addressing quality of care and health outcomes.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
• Members with a diagnosis of pregnancy
Members ages 81 and older as of Dec.31 of the measurement Frailty diagnoses must be in the
year who had at least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates measurement year on different
of service dates of service
Members 66-80 years of age as of Dec.31 of the measurement • Frailty diagnoses must be in the
year with frailty and advanced illness. Members must meet both measurement year on different
frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify dates of service
as an exclusion:
• Advanced illness diagnosis
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
must be in the measurement
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims
year or year prior to the
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent lab
measurement year
(POS 81).
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do not
include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis was
from an independent lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil, Donepezil-
memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine or memantine
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the measurement
measurement year who are either: year on or before Dec. 31 of
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP) the measurement year
• Living long term in an institution*
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Dialysis On or before Dec. 31 of the
• End-stage renal disease (ESRD) measurement year
• Kidney transplant
• Nephrectomy
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
• BP reading must be • BP reading taken during the • Consultation reports
on or after the second measurement year via: • Progress notes
hypertension diagnosis - Outpatient visits
• Medical history
and must be the latest - Telephone or telehealth visits
• SOAP notes
performed within the - Virtual check-ins or e-visits
• Vitals sheet
measurement year. - Non-acute inpatient visits
• BP readings taken on the • Member reported BP • CPT II codes on claims
same day the member readings must be taken
receives a common low- with a digital device, in any
intensity or preventive of these visit settings and
procedure can be used. documented in member's
Examples include, but medical record. Does not
aren’t limited to: require documentation that
it was taken with a
– Eye exam with
digital device.
dilating agents
• Ranges and threshold will
– Injections (e.g.,
not meet the intent of the
allergy, Depo-
measure. A specific BP result
Provera®, insulin,
needs to be documented.
lidocaine, steroid,
Documentation of average
testosterone toradol
BP will meet the intent of
or vitamin B-12)
the measure.
– Intrauterine device
• If multiple BPs were taken
(IUD) insertion
on the same day, the lowest
– Tuberculosis (TB) test systolic and the lowest
– Vaccinations diastolic should represent the
BP result for the date
– Wart or mole removal
of service
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) (cont.)
Important Notes (cont.)
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not
limited to
• BP readings taken in the • Consultation reports
following situations will not • Progress notes
count toward compliance:
• Medical history
– During an acute inpatient
• SOAP notes
stay or an emergency
• Vitals sheet
department visit
– On the same day as a
diagnostic test, or diagnostic
or therapeutic procedure
that requires a change in
diet or medication on or 1
day before the day of the
test or procedure – with the
exception of a fasting blood
test. Examples include, but
are not limited to:
o Colonoscopy
o Dialysis, infusions and
chemotherapy
o Nebulizer treatment
with albuterol
• If the retrieval method is not
mentioned (i.e., manual/digital),
assume the method was digital
and is acceptable
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • If your office uses manual blood pressure cuffs,
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to see don’t round up the BP reading
members with open care opportunities. If • For example: 138/89 mmHg rounded to
you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare 140/90 mmHg
representative can help.
• If a member’s initial BP reading is elevated
• For additional resources on Blood Pressure at the start of a visit, you can take multiple
rechecks, go to UHCprovider.com > Resource readings during the same visit and use the
Library > Healthcare Professional Education and lowest diastolic and lowest systolic to document
Training > Clinical Tools the overall reading. Retake the member’s BP
• It is important to document patient reported after they’ve had time to rest.
vitals in the official medical record when – For example: If a member’s first BP reading
conducting telehealth, telephone or online was 160/80 mmHg and the second reading
assessment visits. Please encourage patients to was 120/90 mmHg, use the 120 systolic of
use a digital device to track and report their BP the second reading and the 80 diastolic of
during every visit. the first reading to show a BP result of
• Always list the date of service and BP 120/80 mmHg
reading together – Place a BP recheck reminder at exam room
– If BP is listed on the vital flow sheet, it must to recheck blood pressure if initial blood
have a date of service pressure was 140/90 or higher
• It’s critical to follow up with a member for a BP • If a member is seeing a cardiologist for their
check after their initial diagnosis . Schedule hypertension, please encourage them to also
member's follow-up visit prior to discharging have their records transferred to their primary
from clinic. care provider’s office
– Members who have an elevated BP during an • If a member is new to your office, please get
office visit in August, September or October their medical record from their previous care
should be brought back in for a follow-up visit provider to properly document the transfer
before Dec. 31 of care
• Talk with members about what a lower goal BP • If your office submits CCDs to
reading is UnitedHealthcare via our clinical data exchange
– For example: 130/80 mmHg program, please ensure the CCD function within
your EMR system is set up to send CPT II Codes
• Remind members who are NPO for a fasting
in the extract
lab they should continue to take their anti-
hypertensive medications with a sip of water on
the morning of their appointment
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Controlling High Blood Pressure (CBP) (cont.)
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes such structured data exchange program, we
as systolic and diastolic BP readings. It can also encourage you to include this demographic
reduce the need for some chart review. data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
• BP readings can be accepted as supplemental information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
data, reducing the need for some chart will keep personally identifiable information
review. Please contact your UnitedHealthcare confidential and won't disclose any information
representative to discuss clinical data without your written consent.
exchange opportunities.
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED)
New for 2025
Added
Yes!
• Bi-lateral eye enucleation is now a required exclusion
Supplemental
• The following scenarios were added to the gap closure criteria: data accepted
- Retinal imaging by a qualified reading center
- Indicated findings from a retinal exam for diabetic retinopathy
performed in both eyes
Updated
• The Hybrid Data Collection Method was removed from this measure - measure will be
reported as Administrative only
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–75 with diabetes (Types 1 and 2) who had a retinal eye exam.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Star Ratings Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation • Pharmacy data
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED) (cont.)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice
Scenario 1: Eye exam with or without evidence of retinopathy billed by any provider type during the
measurement year OR eye exam without evidence of retinopathy during prior year billed by any
provider type
Diabetic eye exam without evidence of retinopathy
CPT®/CPT II 2023F, 2025F, 2033F
Diabetic eye exam with evidence of retinopathy
CPT®/CPT II 2022F, 2024F, 2026F
Scenario 2: Autonomous eye exam billed by any provider type during
the measurement year
Autonomous eye exam (imaging of retina)
CPTR/CPT II 92229
LOINC 105914-6 (with a result), LA34398-0, LA34399-8
Scenario 3: Retinal imaging by a qualified reading center, billed by any
provider type during the measurement year
Retinal imaging
CPT®/CPT II 92227, 92228, 92137
SNOMED 3047001, 20067007, 314971001
Scenario 4: Diabetic retinal screening negative in year prior, billed by
any provider type
Diabetic retinal screening negative in prior
CPT®/CPT II 3072F
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED) (cont.)
Scenario 5: Any combination that indicates findings from a retinal exam for diabetic retinopathy
performed in both the left and right eye by any provider, or a combination that indicates one eye is
enucleated and the other was examined
Left eye Right eye
Retinal exam finding: Any level of retinopathy Retinal exam finding: Any level of retinopathy
(LOINC code 71490-7) with diabetic retinopathy (LOINC code 71491-5) with diabetic retinopathy
severity level (LOINC codes LA18644-7, LA18645- severity level (LOINC codes LA18644-7, LA18645-
4, LA18643-9, LA18648-8, LA18646-2) during the 4, LA18643-9, LA18648-8, LA18646-2) during the
measurement year measurement year
Retinal exam finding: No retinopathy (LOINC Retinal exam finding: No retinopathy (LOINC
code 71490-7 with LOINC code LA18643-9) in the code 71491-5 with LOINC code LA18643-9) in the
year prior to the measurement year year prior to the measurement year
Enucleation: ICD-10-PCS code 08T1XZZ any time Enucleation: ICD-10-PCS code 08T0XZZ any time
during the member’s history through Dec. 31 of during the member’s history through Dec. 31 of
the measurement year the measurement year
Scenario 6: Retinal eye exam billed by an eye care professional during the measurement year OR
retinal eye exam billed by an eye care professional during the prior year with a diagnosis of diabetes
without complications
Retinal eye exam
CPT®/CPT II 92002, 92004, 92012, 92014, 92018, 92019, 92134, 92201, 92202, 92230, 92235,
92250, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99213, 99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245
HCPCS S0620, S0621, S3000
SNOMED 252780007, 252781006, 252782004, 252783009, 252784003, 252788000,
252789008, 252790004, 252846004, 274795007, 274798009, 308110009,
30842004, 314972008, 36844005, 391999003, 392005004, 410441007,
410450009, 410451008, 410452001, 410453006, 410455004, 416369006,
417587001, 420213007, 425816006, 427478009, 53524009, 56072006, 56204000,
6615001, 700070005, 722161008
Diabetes mellitus without complications
ICD-10 Diagnosis E10.9, E11.9, E13.9
SNOMED 721111000124107, 721121000124104, 721201000124104, 31321000119102,
1481000119100, 111552007, 1217068008, 1217044000, 190412005, 1290118005,
313435000, 313436004. 290002008, 443694000, 444073006, 444074000,
444110003, 445353002, 870528001, 164971000119101
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
• Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the
measurement year who are either:
– Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
– Living long term in an institution*
• Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the • Frailty diagnoses must be in the
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. Members measurement year and on
must meet both frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify different dates of service
as an exclusion:
• Advanced illness diagnosis
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
must be in the measurement
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims
year or year prior to the
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent lab
measurement year
(POS 81).
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior.
Do not include claims where the advanced illness
diagnosis was from an independent lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil,
Donepezil-memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine
or memantine
• Bi-lateral eye enucleation • Any time during the member’s
history through Dec. 31 of the
• Bilateral absence of eyes (SNOMED CT code
measurement year
15665641000119103)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
• Members without • Bilateral eye enucleation or • Consultation reports
retinopathy should have acquired absence of both • Diabetic flow sheets
an eye exam every 2 years eyes
• Eye exam report
• Members with retinopathy • Dilated or retinal eye exam
• Progress notes
should have an eye exam • Fundus photography
every year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • A slit-lamp examination will not meet the
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to criteria for the dilated eye exam measure. There
see members with open care opportunities. must be additional documentation of dilation or
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare evidence that the retina was examined for a
representative can help. slit-lamp exam to be considered compliant
• If documenting the history of a dilated eye • A chart or photograph of retinal abnormalities
exam in a member's chart and do not have indicating the date when the fundus
the eye exam report from the eye care photography was performed and evidence that
professional, always list the date of service, an optometrist or ophthalmologist reviewed the
test, result and that retinopathy was assessed results will be compliant.
by an eye care professional – Alternatively, results may be read by:
– For example: “Last diabetic eye exam with o A qualified reading center that operates
John Smith, OD, was June 2024 with no under the direction of a medical director
retinopathy” who is a retinal specialist
• Documentation of a diabetic eye exam by an o A system that provides artificial intelligence
optometrist or ophthalmologist isn’t specific (AI) interpretation
enough to meet the criteria. The medical record
• If a copy of the fundus photography is included
must indicate that a dilated or retinal exam was
in your medical record it must include results,
performed. If the words “dilated” or “retinal”
date and signature of the reading eye care
are missing in the medical record, a notation of
professional for compliance
“dilated drops used” and findings for macula and
• To be reimbursable, billing of fundus
vessels will meet the criteria for a dilated exam.
photography code 92250 must be submitted
• If history of a dilated retinal eye exam and
globally by an optometrist or ophthalmologist
result is in your progress notes, please ensure
and meet disease state criteria
that a date of service, the test or result, and the
• Documentation of hypertensive retinopathy
care provider’s credentials are documented.
should be considered the same as
The care provider must be an optometrist or
diabetic retinopathy
ophthalmologist, and including only the date of
• If your office submits CCDs to UnitedHealthcare
the progress note will not count.
via our clinical data exchange program, please
ensure the CCD function within your EMR
system is set up to send CPT II Codes in
the extract
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Eye Exam for Patients With Diabetes (EED) (cont.)
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes structured data exchange program, we
such as diabetic retinal screening with an eye encourage you to include this demographic
care professional. It can also reduce the need for data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
some chart review. information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
– Adding CPT II modifier codes to a claim may will keep personally identifiable information
result in the gap not closing confidential and won't disclose any information
without your written consent.
• Dilated retinal eye exams with results can be
accepted as supplemental data, reducing the
need for some chart review. Please contact your
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
clinical data exchange opportunities.
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Glycemic Status Assessment for Patients
With Diabetes (GSD)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
The percentage of members ages 18–75 of age with diabetes (Types 1 and 2) whose most recent glycemic
status (hemoglobin A1c [HbA1c] or glucose management indicator [GMI]) showed their blood sugar is
under control during the measurement year adequate control is < 8.0%, poor control is > 9.0%).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
• Exchange/Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System • Automated lab data
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Medical record documentation
Codes
The following codes can be used to submit outcome results for this measure; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
HbA1c < 7.0%
CPT®/CPT II 3044F
SNOMED 165679005
HbA1c ≥ 7.0% and <8.0%
CPT®/CPT II 3051F
HbA1c ≥ 8.0% and ≤ 9.0%
CPT®/CPT II 3052F
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Glycemic Status Assessment for Patients
With Diabetes (GSD) (cont.)
HbA1c > 9.0%
CPT®/CPT II 3046F
SNOMED 451061000124104
Glucose management indicator (GMI)
LOINC 97506-0
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
• Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the measurement • Frailty diagnoses must
year with frailty and advanced illness. Members must meet both frailty be in the measurement
and advanced illness criteria to qualify as an exclusion: year and on different
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of service dates of service
during the measurement year. Do not include claims where the frailty
• Advanced illness
diagnosis was from an independent lab (POS 81).
diagnosis
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by one of the following: must be in the
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates measurement
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do not year or year prior to the
include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis was from an measurement year
independent lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication donepezil, donepezil-memantine,
galantamine, rivastigmine or memantine
• Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
– Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
– Living long term in an institution*
* Supplemental and medical record data may not be used for the frailty with advanced illness or institutional
living exclusions.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Glycemic Status Assessment for Patients
With Diabetes (GSD) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
HbA1c or glucose • A1c, HbA1c, HgbA1c • Diabetic flow sheets
management indicator • Glycohemoglobin • Consultation reports
(GMI) test must be
• Glycohemoglobin A1c • Lab reports
performed during the
• Glycated hemoglobin • Progress notes
measurement year.
• Glycosylated hemoglobin • Vitals sheet
If multiple tests were
performed in the • HB1c • Continuous glucose
measurement year, the result • Hemoglobin A1c monitoring data
from the last test is used.
• Continuous glucose
monitors (CGM)
Ranges and thresholds do
not meet compliance.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Glycemic Status Assessment for Patients
With Diabetes (GSD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity – Please remember to submit LOINCs for
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to any point of care HbA1c tests done in
see members with open care opportunities. addition to those completed at a lab or
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare hospital facility
representative can help. • If your office submits CCDs to UnitedHealthcare
• Always list the date of service, result and via our clinical data exchange program, please
test together ensure the CCD function within your EMR
• Member-reported GMI results can be system is set up to send CPT II Codes in
documented in the member’s medical record the extract
and do not need to be collected by a PCP • Sharing member demographic data is critical
or specialist to understanding the cultural, linguistic and
• If test result(s) are documented in the vitals social needs of those we serve and decreasing
section of your progress notes, please include health inequities across the care continuum.
the date of the blood draw with the result. The This data can include, but is not limited to, race,
date of the progress notes will not count. ethnicity, language, sexual orientation, gender
identity, pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
• Consider point of care A1c testing in the office
disability status.
setting, when applicable
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps
structured data exchange program, we
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes
encourage you to include this demographic
such as HbA1c level. It can also reduce the need
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
for some chart review.
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
• CPT II Codes that are on a lab claim (POS 81)
will keep personally identifiable information
or include a modifier do not count toward
confidential and won't disclose any
numerator compliance
information without your written consent.
• HbA1c tests and results can be accepted
as supplemental data, reducing the need
for some chart review. Please contact your
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
clinical data exchange opportunities.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Kidney Health Evaluation for Patients
With Diabetes (KED)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–85 with diabetes (Types 1 and 2) who
had a kidney health evaluation in the measurement year. Both an eGFR
and a uACR test are required on same or different dates of service.
• At least 1 estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR); AND
• At least 1 urine albumin-creatinine ratio (uACR) test identified by one of the following:
– A quantitative urine albumin test AND a urine creatinine test (billed for service dates 4
days or less apart);OR
– A uACR
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • CMS Star Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Kidney Health Evaluation for Patients
With Diabetes (KED) (cont.)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended
to be a directive of your billing practice.
Estimated glomerular filtration rate lab test
CPT®/CPT II 80047, 80048, 80050, 80053, 80069, 82565
LOINC 102097-3, 50044-7, 50210-4, 50384-7, 62238-1, 69405-9, 70969-1, 77147-7,
94677-2, 98979-8, 98980-6
SNOMED 12341000, 18207002, 241373003, 444275009, 444336003, 446913004,
706951006, 763355007
Quantitative urine albumin lab test
CPT®/CPT II 82043
LOINC 14957-5, 1754-1, 21059-1, 30003-8, 43605-5, 53530-2, 53531-0, 57369-1, 89999-7,
100158-5
SNOMED 104486009, 104819000
Urine creatinine lab test
CPT®/CPT II 82570
LOINC 20624-3, 2161-8, 35674-1, 39982-4, 57344-4, 57346-9, 58951-5
SNOMED 8879006, 36793009, 271260009, 444322008
Urine albumin creatinine ratio test
LOINC 13705-9,14958-3, 14959-1, 30000-4, 44292-1, 59159-4, 76401-9, 77253-3, 77254-1,
89998-9, 9318-7
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Kidney Health Evaluation for Patients
With Diabetes (KED) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members age 81 years or older who had at least 2 frailty
diagnoses on different dates of service
• Members who died
Members with evidence of ESRD or dialysis Any time during the member’s
history on or prior to Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
• Members 66-80 years of age as of Dec. 31 of the • Frailty diagnoses must be in
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. Members the measurement year and on
must meet both frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify different dates of service
as an exclusion:
• Advanced illness diagnosis
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
must be in the measurement
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims
year or year prior to the
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent lab
measurement year
(POS 81).
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do
not include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis
was from an independent lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil, Donepezil-
memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine or memantine
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
• Living long term in an institution*
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Kidney Health Evaluation for Patients
With Diabetes (KED) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Foster a PCP-specialist collaboration to ensure
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to labs are completed annually and to prevent
see members with open care opportunities. duplicate labs or non-compliance
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare • Order and request labs to have members
representative can help. complete prior to appointment to allow results
• The American Diabetes Association (ADA) and to be available for discussion on the day of
National Kidney Foundation (NKF) guidelines the office visit
recommend annual kidney health evaluation for • Track and reach out to members who have
patients with diabetes missed appointments
• Advise members that some complications • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
from diabetes may be asymptomatic. For understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
example, kidney disease is asymptomatic needs of those we serve and decreasing health
in its earliest stages and routine testing and inequities across the care continuum. This data
diagnoses may help prevent/delay some can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
life-threatening complications. language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
• Create automatic flags in EHR to alert staff to pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
know when members are due for screenings. disability status.
Use EHR to send text reminders that labs are – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
due.Educate and remind members of the structured data exchange program, we
importance and rationale behind having these encourage you to include this demographic
labs completed annually. data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
• Provide education to members about the information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
disease process to help increase health will keep personally identifiable information
literacy and improve management of the confidential and won't disclose any
health condition information without your
written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Persistence of Beta-Blocker Treatment
After a Heart Attack (PBH)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
The percentage of members ages 18 and older during the measurement
year who were hospitalized and discharged from July 1 of the year prior to the measurement year to June
30 of the measurement year with a diagnosis of AMI and who received persistent beta-blocker treatment
for 6 months after discharge.
• Persistent beta-blocker treatment: At least 135 days during 180 days post discharge
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select Medicaid State Administrative
• Medicaid reporting • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
Medications
To comply with this measure, a member must have completed a 135-day course of 1 of the following
beta-blockers:
Drug category Medications
Noncardioselective • Carvedilol • Propranolol
beta-blockers • Labetalol • Timolol
• Nadolol • Sotalol
• Pindolol
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Persistence of Beta-Blocker Treatment
After a Heart Attack (PBH) (cont.)
Drug category Medications
Cardioselective • Acebutolol • Betaxolol • Metoprolol
beta-blockers • Atenolol • Bisoprolol • Nebivolol
Antihypertensive • Atenolol-chlorthalidone • Hydrochlorothiazide-metoprolol
combinations • Bendroflumethiazide- • Hydrochlorothiazide-propranolol
nadolol
• Bisoprolol-
hydrochlorothiazide
Any of the following asthma medications dispensed during the member’s history through the
end of their continuous enrollment period denote a history of asthma as a required exclusion:
Drug category Medications
Bronchodilator • Budesonide-formoterol • Fluticasone-salmeterol
combinations • Fluticasone-vilanterol • Formoterol-mometasone
Inhaled corticosteroids • Beclomethasone • Flunisolide
• Budesonide • Fluticasone
• Ciclesonide • Mometasone
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Persistence of Beta-Blocker Treatment
After a Heart Attack (PBH) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time on or between July 1 of
measurement year who are either: the year prior to the measurement
year through the end of the
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
measurement year
• Living long term in an institution
• Members ages 81 and older as of Dec. 31 of the measurement
year had at least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
service
• Members ages 66–80 as of Dec. 31 of the measurement year • Frailty diagnoses must be any
with frailty and advanced illness. Members must meet both time on or between July 1 of the
frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify as an exclusion: year prior to the measurement
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of year through the end of the
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims measurement year and on
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent lab different dates of service
(POS 81).
• Advanced illness diagnosis
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following: must be in the measurement
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates year or year prior to the
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do measurement year
not include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis
was from an independent lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication donepezil, donepezil-
memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine or memantine
• Members with a diagnosis that indicates a contraindication Any time during the member’s
to beta-blocker therapy history through the end of their
• Medication dispensing event indicative of a history of continuous enrollment period
asthma (see list below)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Persistence of Beta-Blocker Treatment
After a Heart Attack (PBH) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• As an administrative measure, it’s important to - Which patients are already motivated to fill
submit codes that reflect a member’s history of and refill, but may skip an occasional dose and
any exclusion noted in the preceding chart simply need reminders?
• If a member is new to your practice, you can • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
submit the exclusion diagnoses through the understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
initial visit claim needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
• If a member isn’t new to your practice, but
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
their chart has documented history of 1 of
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
the exclusion diagnoses, you can submit the
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
diagnosis codes on any visit claim
disability status.
• At each office visit, please talk with your
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
patients about compliance and/or barriers to
structured data exchange program, we
taking their medications and
encourage you to include this demographic
encourage adherence
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
• Please review your patients’ prescription
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
refill patterns and reinforce education and
will keep personally identifiable information
reminders. Consider:
confidential and won't disclose any information
- Which patients don’t fill prescriptions, are without your written consent.
always late to fill or quit refilling over time?
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Pharmacotherapy Management of COPD
Exacerbation (PCE)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Percentage of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations for members ages
40 and older who had an acute inpatient discharge or emergency department visit on or between
Jan. 1-Nov. 30 of the measurement year and were dispensed appropriate medications.
Two rates are reported:
1. Percentage of members dispensed a systemic corticosteroid – or with evidence of an active
prescription – within 14 days of the event
2. Percentage of members dispensed a bronchodilator – or with evidence of an active
prescription – within 30 days of the event
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
Medications
To comply with this measure, a member must have been dispensed, or have an active prescription for,
1 of the following systemic corticosteroids on or within 14 days of the COPD exacerbation:
Drug category Medications
Glucocorticoids • Cortisone • Methylprednisolone
• Dexamethasone • Prednisolone
• Hydrocortisone • Prednisone
Anticholinergic • Aclidinium-bromide • Tiotropium
agents • Ipratropium • Umeclidinium
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Pharmacotherapy Management of COPD
Exacerbation (PCE) (cont.)
Drug category Medications
Beta 2-agonists • Albuterol • Levalbuterol
• Arformoterol • Metaproterenol
• Formoterol • Olodaterol
• Indacaterol • Salmeterol
Bronchodilator • Albuterol-ipratropium • Formoterol-glycopyrrolate
combinations • Budesonide-formoterol • Formoterol-mometasone
• Fluticasone-salmeterol • Glycopyrrolate-indacaterol
• Fluticasone-vilanterol • Olodaterol-tiotropium
• Fluticasone • Umeclidinium-vilanterol
furoate-umeclidinium-vilanterol
• Formoterol-aclidinium
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Pharmacotherapy Management of COPD
Exacerbation (PCE) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• The denominator for this measure is based on data can include, but is not limited to, race,
discharges and not members specifically ethnicity, language, sexual orientation, gender
• Members with active prescriptions for these identity, pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
medications are administratively compliant disability status.
with the measure – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
structured data exchange program, we
– An active prescription is one that’s noted as
encourage you to include this demographic
having available medication left in the “days’
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
supply” through the episode date or further
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
o The “episode date” for an acute inpatient
will keep personally identifiable information
discharge is the date of discharge
confidential and won't disclose any
o The “episode date” for the emergency
information without your written consent.
department visit is the date of service
• Please follow up with members to make sure any
new prescriptions are filled post-discharge
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Acute Hospital Utilization (AHU)
New for 2025
Added
• Medicaid product line for members 18-64 years of age
Definition
For members ages 18 and older, the risk adjusted ratio of observed to expected acute inpatient and
observation stay discharges during the measurement year. For Medicaid, report members ages 18-64 only.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter
• Medicare
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Focus on chronic disease control with members, understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
including regular care provider visits, to help needs of those we serve and decreasing health
prevent and minimize condition complications inequities across the care continuum. This data
and exacerbations can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
• Encourage members to come in for annual language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
wellness visits to promote early diagnosis of pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
any conditions, and to help them complete disability status.
preventive screenings and health promotion – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
activities such as immunizations structured data exchange program, we
encourage you to include this demographic
• Educate members on personal safety such
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
as wearing seat belts and avoiding falls, and
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
lifestyle choices including diet, exercise,
will keep personally identifiable information
smoking and appropriate alcohol intake
confidential and won't disclose any information
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
without your written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Adults' Access to Preventive/Ambulatory
Health Services (AAP)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental
Definition
data accepted
Percentage of members ages 20 and older who had an ambulatory
or preventive care visit.
• For Medicaid and Medicare members: Visit must occur during the measurement year
• For commercial members: Visit must occur during the measurement year or 2 years prior to the
measurement year
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting Administrative
• Medicaid • Claim/encounter
• Medicare
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
Ambulatory visits
CPT®/CPT II 92002, 92004, 92012, 92014, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004, 98005, 98006,
98007, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012, 98013, 98014, 98015, 98016, 98966,
98967, 98968, 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205,
99211, 99212, 99213, 99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99304, 99305,
99306, 99307, 99308, 99309, 99310, 99315, 99316, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345,
99347, 99348, 99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387,
99391, 99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404,
99411, 99412, 99421, 99422, 99423, 99429, 99441, 99442, 99443, 99457, 99458
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Adults' Access to Preventive/Ambulatory
Health Services (AAP) (cont.)
Ambulatory Visits
HCPCS G0438, G2252, G2012, G2251, T1015, G0463, G0402, G0071, G2250, G2010,
S0621, S0620
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z00.00, Z00.01, Z00.121, Z00.129, Z00.3, Z00.5, Z00.8, Z02.0, Z02.1, Z02.2, Z02.3,
Z02.4, Z02.5, Z02.6, Z02.71, Z02.79, Z02.81, Z02.82, Z02.83, Z02.84, Z02.89, Z02.9,
Z76.1, Z76.2
SNOMED 268565007, 699134002, 1269517007, 170254004, 170168000, 410630000,
783260003, 170132005, 401140000, 170141000, 170272005, 170250008,
170281004, 170150003, 170290006, 410625004, 410635005, 170159002,
1269518002, 170263002, 442162000, 170309003, 170300004, 170123008,
170107008, 410622001, 170114005, 243788004, 268563000, 713020001,
210098006, 712791009, 162655003, 207195004, 209099002, 19681004,
162651007, 18170008, 386472008, 314849005, 185317003, 386473003, 401267002,
410620009, 410642005, 410643000, 410629005, 410644006, 410645007,
410646008, 410631001, 410647004, 410648009, 410649001, 410632008,
410650001, 410624000, 410623006, 410633003, 410634009, 410626003,
410636006, 410637002, 410627007, 410638007, 410639004, 410640002,
410628002, 410641003, 281029006, 281031002
UBREV 0511,0983, 0521, 0517, 0523, 0510, 0520, 0522, 0514, 0519, 0529, 0982, 0515, 0513,
0516, 0526, 0525, 0524, 0528, 0527
Reason for Ambulatory Visit
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z00.00, Z00.01, Z00.121, Z00.129, Z00.3, Z00.5, Z00.8, Z02.0, Z02.1, Z02.2, Z02.3,
Z02.4, Z02.5, Z02.6, Z02.71, Z02.79, Z02.81, Z02.82, Z02.83, Z02.84, Z02.89, Z02.9,
Z76.1, Z76.2
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Adults' Access to Preventive/Ambulatory
Health Services (AAP) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died mesaurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please be sure to have members come in for an – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
ambulatory or preventive care visit annually structured data exchange program, we
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity encourage you to include this demographic
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to see data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
members with open care opportunities that information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
can be addressed during a well-care visit. If will keep personally identifiable information
you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare confidential and won't disclose any information
representative can help. without your written consent.
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Emergency Department Utilization (EDU)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure.
Definition
The risk-adjusted ratio of observed-to-expected emergency department (ED) visits for members ages 18
or older during the measurement year.
Member ED visits for the following reasons will not be included in the denominator:
• Electroconvulsive therapy
• Principal diagnosis of mental health or chemical dependency
• Psychiatry
• Result in an inpatient stay
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Focus on chronic disease control with members, preventive screenings and health promotion
including regular care provider visits, to help activities such as immunizations
prevent and minimize condition complications • Educate members on personal safety such as
and exacerbations wearing seat belts, avoiding falls and lifestyle
• Encourage members to come in for annual choices including diet, exercise, smoking and
wellness visits to promote early diagnosis of appropriate alcohol intake
any conditions, and to help them complete
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Emergency Department Utilization (EDU) (cont.)
• Talk with members about appropriate ED use – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
and other options including: structured data exchange program, we
– Asking for same-day appointments encourage you to include this demographic
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
– Calling your office’s after-hours line
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
– Going to urgent care
will keep personally identifiable information
– Trying telehealth confidential and won't disclose any information
– Using their health plan’s nurse line without your written consent.
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Hospitalization for Potentially Preventable
Complications (HPC)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure.
Definition
Rate of discharges for an ambulatory care sensitive condition (ACSC) per 1,000 for members ages 67
and older, taking into account the risk-adjusted ratio of observed to expected discharges for an ACSC
by chronic and acute conditions.
The rate is adjusted for factors such as a member’s age, gender or comorbid condition(s).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Administrative
• Claim/encounter data
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Medicare members who are either: measurement year
– Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
– Living long term in an institution*
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Hospitalization for Potentially Preventable
Complications (HPC) (cont.)
Important notes
Acute inpatient hospitalizations and observation stays for an ACSC during the year count toward
the measure. The primary diagnosis on the inpatient hospital claim is used to determine which
hospitalizations are included.
NCQA defines ACSC as an acute or chronic health condition that can be managed or treated in an
outpatient setting. There are 12 conditions that are considered as part of this measure: 4 acute and
8 chronic.
Acute ACSC health conditions Chronic ACSC health conditions
• Bacterial pneumonia • Diabetes short-term complications
• Cellulitis • Diabetes long-term complications
• Severe pressure ulcers • Uncontrolled diabetes
• Urinary tract infections • Lower-extremity amputation among
patients with diabetes
• Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD)
• Asthma
• Hypertension
• Heart failure
The classification period is the year prior to the measurement year.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Hospitalization for PotentiallyPreventable
Complications (HPC) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Schedule follow-up appointments with
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to members to manage and track their health
see members with open care opportunities. status. At each visit, provide an opportunity for
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare them to ask questions.
representative can help. • Create early intervention processes to
• Some members may be at increased risk for help prevent complications and address
complications from an ACSC. In these cases, it’s exacerbations of ACSCs including diabetes,
important to make sure they’re adhering to your COPD, asthma and congestive
treatment plan including following up on heart failure
any referrals. • Make sure hospitalists you partner with are
• Issues can arise despite your best interventions. familiar with this measure
If this happens, consider these suggestions: • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
– Urgent care: If you can’t immediately see a understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
member and it’s medically appropriate, direct needs of those we serve and decreasing health
them to a nearby in-network urgent care inequities across the care continuum. This data
center. This can help prevent the member’s can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
health condition from getting worse and language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
avoid a costly emergency department (ED) pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
visit. Follow up with them as soon as possible disability status.
and adjust their treatment plan as needed. – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
– Transitional care management (TCM): structured data exchange program, we
If recently discharged from a hospital or encourage you to include this demographic
skilled nursing facility, provide the member data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
with Transitional care management (TCM) information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
outreach and services. TCM, which includes will keep personally identifiable information
medication reconciliation, can help prevent confidential and won't disclose any
unnecessary inpatient readmissions. information without your written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC)
New for 2025
Added
• A lab claim exclusion was added to the substance use disorder counseling and surveillance
gap closure criteria
Definition
Percentage of emergency department (ED) visits for members ages 18 and older who have multiple
high-risk chronic conditions who had a follow-up service within 7 days of the ED visit.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Administrative
• Claim/encounter data
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
Scenario 1: Outpatient and telehealth visits
CPT®/CPT II 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004, 98005, 98006, 98007, 98008, 98009, 98010,
98011, 98012, 98013, 98014, 98015, 98016, 98966, 98967, 98968, 98970, 98971,
98972, 98980, 98981, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213, 99214,
99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345, 99347, 99348,
99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99391, 99392,
99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411, 99412,
99421, 99422, 99423, 99441, 99442, 99443, 99455, 99456, 99457, 99458
HCPCS G0439, G0438, G2252, G2012, G2251, T1015, G0463, G0402, G0071, G2250, G2010
SNOMED 866149003, 444971000124105, 84251009, 77406008, 50357006, 281036007,
209099002, 90526000, 456201000124103, 3391000175108, 185464004,
86013001, 439740005, 386472008, 314849005, 185317003, 386473003,
401267002, 185463005, 185465003
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC) (cont.)
Scenario 1: Outpatient and telehealth visits
UBREV 0511, 0983, 0521, 0517, 0523, 0510, 0520, 0522, 0514, 0519, 0529, 0982, 0515, 0513,
0516, 0526, 0528, 0527
Scenario 2: Transitional care management
CPT®/CPT II 99495, 99496
Scenario 3: Case management visits
CPT®/CPT II 99366
HCPCS T1016, T2022, T1017, T2023
SNOMED 386230005, 425604002, 416341003
Scenario 4: Complex care management
CPT®/CPT II 99439, 99487, 99489, 99490, 99491
HCPCS G0506
Scenario 5: Outpatient or telehealth behavioral health visit
CPT®/CPT II 90847, 90853, 99238, 99239, 90875, 90876, 99223, 99222, 99221, 99255, 99253,
99254, 99252, 90849, 90791, 90792, 90845, 90840, 90839, 90832, 90833, 90834,
90836, 90837, 90838, 99233, 99232, 99231
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 17 Walk-in retail health clinic
05 Indian Health Service 18 Place of employment – worksite
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC) (cont.)
Code Location
09 Prison/correctional facility 20 Urgent care facility
11 Office 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
12 Home 33 Custodial care facility
13 Assisted living facility 49 Independent clinic
14 Group home 50 Federally qualified health center
15 Mobile unit 71 Public health clinic
16 emporary lodging 72 Rural health clinic
Scenario 6: Outpatient or telehealth behavioral health visit
CPT®/CPT II 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004, 98005, 98006, 98007, 99483, 98961, 98962,
98960, 99345, 99342, 99344, 99341, 99350, 99348, 99349, 99347, 99510, 99385,
99386, 99387, 99384, 99382, 99381, 99383, 99494, 99492, 99245, 99243, 99244,
99242, 99205, 99203, 99204, 99202, 99211, 99215, 99213, 99214, 99212, 99395,
99396, 99397, 99394, 99392, 99391, 99393, 99078, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404,
99411, 99412, 99493
HCPCS G0176, H0040, H0039, H0004, H0002, T1015, H0037, H0036, H2015, H2016, H2010,
H2000, H2011, G0463, H0034, H0031, H2013, H2017, H2018, G0512, G0155, H2014,
G0409, H2019, H2020, G0177, G0560
SNOMED 866149003, 444971000124105, 84251009, 77406008, 50357006, 281036007,
209099002, 90526000, 456201000124103, 391261003, 391257009, 391260002,
391225008, 391223001, 391224007, 3391000175108, 185464004, 86013001,
439740005, 391242002, 391237005, 391239008, 391233009, 185463005,
185465003
UBREV 0904, 0917, 0983, 0521, 0517, 0523, 0916, 0510, 0520, 0900, 0915, 0522, 0914, 0902,
0919, 0519, 0529, 0982, 0515, 0903, 0513, 0911, 0516, 0526, 0528, 0527
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC) (cont.)
Scenario 7: Intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization
CPT®/CPT II 90847, 90853, 99238, 99239, 90875, 90876, 99223, 99222, 99221, 99255, 99253,
99254, 99252, 90849, 90791, 90792, 90845, 90840, 90839, 90832, 90833, 90834,
90836, 90837, 90838, 99233, 99232, 99231
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
Scenario 8: Intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization
HCPCS H2012, S9485, S9484, G0410, S9480, G0411, H0035, S0201, H2001
SNOMED 305347001, 305345009, 305346005, 391048007, 391046006, 391047002,
391188004, 391187009, 391186000, 391185001, 391054008, 391038005,
391170007, 391153004, 391152009, 391150001, 391151002, 391195008, 391194007,
391191004, 391192006, 391211007, 391210008, 391209003, 391207001, 391208006,
391056005, 391133003, 391055009, 391256000, 391255001, 391252003,
391254002, 391042008, 391043003, 7133001, 391232004, 391228005, 391229002
UBREV 0905, 0907, 0912, 0913
Scenario 9: Community mental health center visit
CPT®/CPT II 90847, 90853, 99238, 99239, 90875, 90876, 99223, 99222, 99221, 99255, 99253,
99254, 99252, 90849, 90791, 90792, 90845, 90840, 90839, 90832, 90833, 90834,
90836, 90837, 90838, 99233, 99232, 99231
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC) (cont.)
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
53 Community mental health center
Scenario 10:
Electroconvulsive therapy with any provider type and with appropriate place of service code
Electroconvulsive therapy
CPT®/CPT 90870
II
ICD-10 GZB0ZZZ, GZB1ZZZ, GZB2ZZZ, GZB3ZZZ, GZB4ZZZ
Procedure
SNOMED 284468008, 23835007, 10470002, 313019002, 1010696002, 231079005, 231080008,
1010697006, 11075005, 313020008
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
05 Indian Health Service 20 Urgent care facility
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 24 Ambulatory surgical center
11 Office 33 Custodial care facility
12 Home 49 Independent clinic
13 Assisted living facility 50 Federally qualified health center
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC) (cont.)
Code Location
14 Group home 52 Psychiatric facility – partial
hospitalization
15 Mobile unit 53 Community mental health center
16 Temporary lodging 71 Public health clinic
17 Walk-in retail health clinic 72 Rural health clinic
18 Place of employment – worksite
Scenario 11: Telehealth visit with any provider type and the appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90847, 90853, 99238, 99239, 90875, 90876, 99223, 99222, 99221, 99255, 99253,
99254, 99252, 90849, 90791, 90792, 90845, 90840, 90839, 90832, 90833, 90834,
90836, 90837, 90838, 99233, 99232, 99231
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
02 Telehealth
10 Telehealth
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC) (cont.)
Scenario 12: Substance use disorder services
CPT®/CPT II 99408, 99409
HCPCS H0001, H0022, H0050, H0007, H0005, H0015, H0016, H0047, H2036, H2035, G0396,
G0397, T1006, T1012, G0443
SNOMED 827094004, 720175009, 707166002, 20093000, 720176005, 713127001, 370776007,
428211000124100, 711008001, 445662007, 774091000, 763302001, 450760003,
774090004, 445628007, 763104007, 704182008, 772813001, 865964007,
763233002, 87106005, 23915005, 182969009, 64297001, 67516001, 266707007,
792901003, 792902005, 310653000, 414054004, 414056002, 61480009,
720174008, 56876005, 720177001, 414283008, 414501008, 713107002, 713106006,
370854007, 415662004, 385989002, 386449006, 386450006, 386451005
UBREV 0906, 0944, 0945
Scenario 13: Substance abuse counseling and surveillance
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z71.41, Z71.51 (do not include lab claims (claims with POS 81))
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for People With Multiple High-Risk Chronic
Conditions (FMC) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• This measure focuses on follow up after an ED visit: • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
See patients within 7 days understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
• If a situation arises where a patient is unable to needs of those we serve and decreasing health
be seen within7 days, then they need to have an inequities across the care continuum. This data
appointment within 30 days of discharge can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
• Please use Practice Assist, POCA or Reports to
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
identify members with 2 or more eligible chronic
disability status.
conditions and history of ED visits; increase
engagement with patients with multiple chronic – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
conditions to avoid unnecessary ED visits structured data exchange program, we
encourage you to include this demographic
• Provide patients with alternative options to ED
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
locations including urgent care, telehealth or
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
in-person office visits
will keep personally identifiable information
• Remind patients to schedule an office visit or
confidential and won't disclose any information
telehealth follow-up within 7 days post ED visit as a
without your written consent.
way to ensure all patients are engaged
• Encourage the use of telehealth appointments
when appropriate
• If you need to refer your patient to a behavioral
health specialist or need to request coordination
of care, please call the number on the back
of the patient’s health plan ID card or search
liveandworkwell.com
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET)
New for 2025
Added
• A lab claim exclusion was added to the substance use disorder counseling and surveillance
gap closure criteria
Definition
Percentage of new episodes of substance use disorder (SUD) that result in 1 or both of the following:
• Initiation of SUD treatment: Percentage of new SUD episodes that result in treatment through an
inpatient SUD admission, outpatient visit, intensive outpatient encounter, partial hospitalization,
telehealth or medication treatment within 14 days of diagnosis
• Engagement of SUD treatment: Percentage of new SUD episodes that result in treatment
within 34 days of initiation visit
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings –
• Medicare IET Engagement Only
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
All of the following scenarios must include a diagnosis of 1 of the below on the claim:
• Alcohol use disorder
• Opioid use disorder
• Other drug abuse and dependence
Acute or nonacute inpatient visit
For numerator compliance for engagement of treatment, at least 2 of the following scenarios must have
been met on the day after the initiation encounter through 34 days after. Two engagement visits can be on
the same date, but must be with different providers.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Scenario 1 : Inpatient stay
UBREV 0101, 0100, 0207, 0116, 0126, 0136, 0146, 0156, 0110, 0120, 0130, 0140, 0150, 0160, 0170,
0190, 0200, 0210, 1000, 0213, 0214, 0206, 0202, 0111, 0121, 0131, 0141, 0151, 0211, 0171,
0172, 0173, 0174, 0122, 0132, 0142, 0152, 0112, 0117, 0127, 0137, 0147, 0157, 0119, 0129, 0139,
0149, 0159, 0169, 0219, 0209, 0179, 0199, 0113, 0123, 0133, 0143, 0153, 0203, 0114, 0124,
0134, 0144, 0154, 0204, 0212, 0118, 0128, 0138, 0148, 0158, 1002, 1001, 0167, 0164, 0191,
0192, 0193, 0194, 0201, 0208
Scenario 2: Outpatient visits with outpatient place of service code(s)
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 17 Walk-in retail health clinic
05 Indian Health Service 18 Place of employment – worksite
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 20 Urgent care facility
11 Office 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
12 Home 33 Custodial care facility
13 Assisted living facility 49 Independent clinic
14 Group home 50 Federally qualified health center
15 Mobile unit 71 Public health clinic
16 Temporary lodging 72 Rural health clinic
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Scenario 3: Behavioral health outpatient visit
CPT®/CPT II 99483, 98961, 98962, 98960, 99345, 99342, 99344, 99341, 99350, 99348, 99349,
99347, 99510, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99384, 99382, 99381, 99383, 99494, 99492,
99245, 99243, 99244, 99242, 99205, 99203, 99204, 99202, 99211, 99215, 99213, 99214,
99212, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99394, 99392, 99391, 99393, 99078, 99401, 99402,
99403, 99404, 99411, 99412, 99493, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004, 98005,
98006, 98007
HCPCS G0176, H0040, H0039, H0004, H0002, T1015, H0037, H0036, H2015, H2016, H2010,
H2000, H2011, G0463, H0034, H0031, H2013, H2017, H2018, G0512, G0155, H2014,
G0409, H2019, H2020, G0177, G0560
SNOMED 866149003, 444971000124105, 84251009, 77406008, 50357006, 281036007,
209099002, 90526000, 456201000124103, 391261003, 391257009, 391260002,
391225008, 391223001, 391224007, 3391000175108, 185464004, 86013001,
439740005, 391242002, 391237005, 391239008, 391233009, 185463005, 185465003
UBREV 0904, 0917, 0983, 0521, 0517, 0523, 0916, 0510, 0520, 0900, 0915, 0522, 0914, 0902,
0919, 0519, 0529, 0982, 0515, 0903, 0513, 0911, 0516, 0526, 0528, 0527
Scenario 4: Intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization with partial hospitalization
place of service code
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
Scenario 5: Intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization
HCPCS H2012, S9485, S9484, G0410, S9480, G0411, H0035, S0201, H2001
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
SNOMED 305347001, 305345009, 305346005, 391048007, 391046006, 391047002,
391188004, 391187009, 391186000, 391185001, 391054008, 391038005,
391170007, 391153004, 391152009, 391150001, 391151002, 391195008, 391194007,
391191004, 391192006, 391211007, 391210008, 391209003, 391207001, 391208006,
391056005, 391133003, 391055009, 391256000, 391255001, 391252003,
391254002, 391042008, 391043003, 7133001, 391232004, 391228005, 391229002
UBREV 0905, 0907, 0912, 0913
Scenario 6: Non-residential substance abuse treatment facility with non-residential substance abuse
treatment facility place of service code
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Code Location
57 Non-residential substance abuse treatment facility
58 Non-residential opioid treatment facility
Scenario 7: Community mental health center visit with community mental health place of
service code
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
53 Community mental health center
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Scenario 8: Telehealth visit with telehealth place of service code
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
02 Telehealth
10 Telehealth
Scenario 9: Substance use disorder services
CPT®/CPT II 99408, 99409
HCPCS H0001, H0022, H0050, H0007, H0005, H0015, H0016, H0047, H2036, H2035, G0396,
G0397, T1006, T1012, G0443
SNOMED 827094004, 720175009, 707166002, 20093000, 720176005, 713127001,
370776007, 428211000124100, 711008001, 445662007, 774091000, 763302001,
450760003, 774090004, 445628007, 763104007, 704182008, 772813001,
865964007, 763233002, 87106005, 23915005, 182969009, 64297001, 67516001,
266707007, 792901003, 792902005, 310653000, 414054004, 414056002,
61480009, 720174008, 56876005, 720177001, 414283008, 414501008, 713107002,
713106006, 370854007, 415662004, 385989002, 386449006, 386450006,
386451005
UBREV 0906, 0944, 0945
Scenario 10: Substance abuse counseling and surveillance
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z71.41, Z71.51 (do not include lab claims (claims with POS 81))
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Scenario 11: Telephone visit
CPT®/CPT II 98967, 98968, 98966, 99442, 99443, 99441, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012, 98013,
98014, 98015
SNOMED 386472008, 314849005, 185317003, 386473003, 401267002
Scenario 12: Online assessment (e-visit/virtual check-in)
CPT®/CPT II 99422, 99423, 99421, 98971, 98972, 98970, 99458, 99457, 98981, 98980, 98016
HCPCS G2252, G2012, G2251, G0071, G2250, G2010
Scenario 13: Opioid treatment service
OUD weekly billing non-drug treatment
HCPCS G2071, G2074, G2075, G2076, G2077, G2080
OUD weekly billing drug treatment
HCPCS G2067, G2068, G2070, G2072, G2073, G0533
OUD monthly office-based treatment
HCPCS G2086, G2087
Scenario 14: Medication treatment for alcohol use disorder
HCPCS J2315, G2069, G2073
One or more medication dispensing events for alcohol use disorder:
Drug category Medications
Aldehyde • Disulfiram (oral)
dehydrogenase
inhibitor
Antagonist • Naltrexone (oral and injectable)
Other • Acamprosate (oral; delayed-release tablet)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Scenario 15: Medication treatment for opioid use disorder
HCPCS G2067, G2068, G2069, G2070, G2072, G2073, G2078, G2079, H0020, H0033, J0570, J0571,
J0572, J0573, J0574, J0575, J2315, Q9991, Q9992, S0109
SNOMED 310653000
Drug category Medications
Antagonist • Naltrexone (oral and injectable)
Partial agonist • Buprenorphine/naloxone (sublingual tablet, buccal film, sublingual film)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure
to close care opportunity
• Episode date is the earliest date of service
for an observation, intensive outpatient,
partial hospitalization, outpatient,
telehealth, detoxification or ED visit
not resulting in an inpatient stay with a
substance use disorder diagnosis between
Nov.15 of the year prior to the measurement
year through Nov.14 of the measurement
year. For inpatient stay or detoxification
during an inpatient stay, episode date is the
date of discharge.
• Initiation of SUD Treatment must take Initiation of SUD treatment through:
place within 14 days of the episode date • Acute or non-acute inpatient stay
• Claims must include the visit code, original • Group visits with an appropriate place of
episode diagnosis and, when applicable, a service code and diagnosis code
place of service code
• Medication dispensing event
• If the episode was an inpatient discharge
• Medication treatment
or an ED visit resulting in an inpatient
• Online assessment with diagnosis code
stay, the inpatient stay is considered
• Stand-alone visits with an appropriate
initiation of treatment and the member
place of service code and diagnosis code
is compliant
• Telephone visit with diagnosis code
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Important notes (cont.)
Test, service or procedure
to close care opportunity
• Engagement of SUD treatment is Engagement of SUD treatment when a
compliance with the initiation treatment member meets the criteria for initiation of
AND 1 of the following between the day after treatment and proceeds with 2 or more of the
and 34 days after the initiation visit: following:
- At least 2 inpatient, outpatient or • Acute or non-acute inpatient stay
medication treatment visits (excluding • Group visits with an appropriate place of
methadone billed on a pharmacy claim) service code and diagnosis code
- A long-acting SUD medication • Medication dispensing event
administration event (MOUD/MAUD)
• Medication treatment
• Claims must include the visit code, original
• Online assessment with diagnosis code
episode diagnosis and, when applicable, a
• Stand-alone visits with an appropriate place
place of service code
of service code and diagnosis code
• For members who initiated treatment
• Telephone visit with diagnosis code
through
• E-visit or virtual check-in
an inpatient admission, the 34-day period for
the 2 engagement visits begins the day after
their discharge
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on follow-up treatment needs of those we serve and decreasing
when diagnosing a patient with substance health inequities across the care continuum.
use disorder. This data can include, but is not limited to, race,
• Use screening tools to aid in diagnosing ethnicity, language, sexual orientation, gender
identity, pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
• Screening tools (e.g., SBIRT, AUDIT-PC,
disability status.
Audit C Plus 2, CAGE-AID and CUDIT-R) assist
in the assessment of substance use and can – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
aid the discussion around referral for structured data exchange program, we
treatment. Code “Unspecified use” diagnoses encourage you to include this demographic
sparingly. Screening tools available at data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
providerexpress.com > Clinical Resources > information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
Behavioral Health Toolkit for Medical Providers. will keep personally identifiable information
confidential and won't disclose any
• Schedule a follow-up appointment prior
information without your written consent.
to patient leaving the office with you or a
substance use specialist to occur within 14 days • Encourage the use of telehealth appointments
and then 2 more visits with you or a substance when appropriate
use treatment provider within the next 34 days • Encourage newly diagnosed individuals to
• When a patient is in remission, please remember include their family in their treatment
to remove the original diagnosis and use • Although community supports, such as AA and
remission codes: NA, are beneficial, they do not take the place of
– Alcohol abuse in remission (F10.11) professional treatment
– Alcohol dependence in remission (F10.21) • Encourage newly diagnosed individuals
to accept treatment by assisting them in
– Cannabis abuse in remission (F12.11)
identifying their own reasons for change
– Other psychoactive substance dependence
• If you need to refer your patient to a substance
in remission (F19.21)
use specialist or need to request coordination
• If patient has started MOUD/MAUD then they
of care, please call the number on the back
only need 1 MOUD/MAUD follow-up visit
of the patient’s health plan ID card or search
in 34 days
liveandworkwell.com
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Initiation and Engagement of Substance Use
Disorder Treatment (IET) (cont.)
• The patient must receive an initiation of • It is critical to ensure patients who no longer
substance use disorder treatment within 14 qualify for a SUD diagnoses are noted as
days; without this initiation visit, they are not in remission using the suitable F code to
eligible for closing the engagement care gap ensure members do not have a gap in
thereafter within 34 days care inappropriately (e.g., F11.21 = opioid
dependence, in remission; F10.21 = alcohol
dependence, in remission)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Plan All-Cause Readmissions (PCR)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
The number of acute inpatient and observation stays during the measurement year that were followed
by an unplanned acute readmission for any diagnosis within 30 days and the predicted probability of an
acute readmission for members ages 18 and older.
A lower rate indicates a better score for this measure.
For Medicaid and commercial members, the included age range is 18–64 only.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Star Ratings Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
measurement year
• Member died during the inpatient stay Jan. 1—Dec. 1 of the
• Members with a principal diagnosis of pregnancy on the measurement year
discharge claim
• Principal diagnosis of a condition originating in the
perinatal period on the discharge claim
• Acute hospitalizations where the discharge claims has a
diagnosis for:
– Chemotherapy maintenance
– Principle diagnosis of rehabilitation
– Organ transplant
– Potentially planned procedure without a principal acute diagnosis
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Plan All-Cause Readmissions (PCR) (cont.)
Outlier exclusions — Removed from eligible population
Exclusion Time frame
• Medicaid and Medicare members in the eligible population with 4 or Jan. 1—Dec. 1 of the
more acute inpatient or observation stays measurement year
• Commercial members in the eligible population with 3 or more acute Jan. 1—Dec. 1 of the
inpatient or observation stays measurement yea
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Plan All-Cause Readmissions (PCR) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity o Do you completely understand all the
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to instructions you were given at discharge?
see members with open care opportunities.
o Do you completely understand the
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare
medications and your medication
representative can help.
instructions? Have you filled all your
• The denominator for this measure is based on prescriptions?
discharges and not members specifically
o Have you made your follow-up
• An acute discharge can be from any type of
appointments? Do you need help
facility, including behavioral health facilities
scheduling them?
• Discharges are excluded if a direct
o Do you have transportation to the
transfer takes place after Dec. 1 of the
appointment and/or do you need help
measurement year
arranging transportation?
• Starting Jan. 1, 2022, UnitedHealthcare’s Healthy
o Do you have any questions?
at Home Program for Medicare Advantage
• A lower readmission rate and comprehensive
Group Retiree members can help meet
diagnosis documentation will drive better
member needs post-discharge and preventing
scores for this measure
readmissions. Healthy at Home focuses on
post-discharge meals, transportation, personal • Patients with multiple comorbidities are
care and more. Contact your UnitedHealthcare expected to return post inpatient or observation
representative for more information. discharge at a higher rate. Ensure all suspect
conditions are appropriately identified in the
• Please help members avoid readmission by:
patient’s medical record and claims.
– Following up with them within 1 week of
• Encourage members to engage in palliative
their discharge
care or hospice programs as appropriate to
– Making sure they filled their new
drive lower readmissions for high risk patients to
prescriptionspost-discharge
reduce hospitalizations
– Implementing a robust, safe discharge plan
that includes a post-discharge phone call to
discuss these questions:
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Plan All-Cause Readmissions (PCR) (cont.)
• Sharing member demographic data is critical – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
to understanding the cultural, linguistic and social structured data exchange program, we
needs of those we serve and decreasing health encourage you to include this demographic
inequities across the care continuum. This data data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, will keep personally identifiable information
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and confidential and won't disclose any information
disability status. without your written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCNIA - Notification
of Inpatient Admission
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
For members ages 18 and older, percentage of acute or non-acute inpatient discharges on or
between Jan. 1—Dec. 1 of the measurement year with a notification of inpatient admission
documented the day of or 2 days after the admission (3 days total).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
• This sub-measure is hybrid
ONLY. No administrative data
is available.
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCNIA - Notification
of Inpatient Admission (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure to close care opportunity Medical record
detail including,
but not limited to
• Admission is Medical record documentation must be about the • Health history
defined as the date admission and can include record of a discussion or and physical
of the inpatient information transfer between the following: • Home health
admission or • Inpatient staff/care provider and the member’s records
the date of PCP or ongoing care provider • Progress notes
admission when
• Emergency department (ED) facility and the • Skilled nursing
an observation
member’s PCP or ongoing care provider facility
stay turns into an
• Health information exchange (HIE), automated minimum data
inpatient admission
admission/discharge transfer (ADT) alert system set (MDS) form
• Administrative or shared electronic medical record (EMR) system • SOAP notes
data doesn’t and the member’s PCP or ongoing care provider
count toward the
• A shared electronic medical record system and
numerator for
the member’s PCP or ongoing care provider
inpatient admission
• The member’s health plan and their PCP or
notification
ongoing care provider
• Documentation
• Evidence that the information was integrated in
that a care provider
the appropriate medical record and is accessible
sent a member
to the PCP or ongoing care provider on the day of
to the ED visit(s)
discharge through 2 days after discharge (3 total
that resulted in an
days) meets criteria
inpatient admission
OR (continued on next page)
does not meet
compliance for the
numerator
( continued on
next page)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCNIA - Notification
of Inpatient Admission (cont.)
Important notes (cont.)
Test, service or procedure to close care opportunity Medical record
detail including,
but not limited to
• Documentation OR
in the outpatient
Medical record documentation that:
medical record
• The member’s PCP or ongoing care provider
must include
admitted the member to the hospital
evidence of receipt
of notification of • A specialist admitted the member to the hospital
inpatient admission and notified the member’s PCP or ongoing
on the day of care provider
admission through • The member’s PCP or ongoing care provider
2 days after the ordered tests or treatments during the member’s
admission (3 inpatient stay.
total days) • The PCP or ongoing care provider performed a
preadmission exam or received communication
about a planned inpatient admission
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCMRP – Medication
Reconciliation Post-Discharge
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
For members ages 18 and older, percentage with an acute or non-acute inpatient discharge on or
between Jan. 1–Dec. 1 of the measurement year with medication reconciliation documented on the
date of the discharge through 30 days after the discharge (31 days total).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
• Claim/encounter data
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Medication Reconciliation
CPT®/CPT II 1111F, 99483, 99495, 99496
SNOMED 430193006, 428701000124107
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCMRP – Medication
Reconciliation Post-Discharge (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including,
but not limited to
• The Medication Reconciliation • Discharge medications and • Health history
Post-Discharge numerator assesses outpatient medications and physical
whether medication reconciliation reconciled and documented in • Home health
occurred. It does not attempt to the outpatient medical record records
assess the quality of the • Current medications and • Medication list
Medication list documented Medication list reviewed and
• Progress notes
in the medical record or the process documentation of any of
• Skilled nursing
used to document the most recent the following:
facility minimum
Medication list in the
– Documentation in the
data set
medical record.
discharge summary
(MDS) form
• Medication reconciliation that states current and
• SOAP notes
can be conducted by a prescribing discharge medications were
practitioner, clinical pharmacist, reconciled and filed in the
physician assistant or outpatient medical record
registered nurse
– Notation of current
• A medication reconciliation medications that also
performed without the member references discharge
present meets compliance medications
• Medication reconciliation must – Notation of current
be completed on the date of medications and that
discharge or 30 days afterward discharge medications
were reconciled
( continued on next page)
( continued on next page)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCMRP – Medication
Reconciliation Post-Discharge (cont.)
Important notes (cont.)
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not
limited to
• Medication reconciliation can – Review of discharge
be documented if there is Medication list and current
evidence that: Medication list on the same
– A member was seen for a date of service
post-discharge follow-up – Notation if no medications
– Medication review or were prescribed at
reconciliation was completed discharge
at the appointment – Evidence the
• A Medication list must be present member was seen for a
in the outpatient record to fully hospital post-discharge
comply with the measure follow-up visit with
evidence of medication
• Documentation of post-op/
reconciliation or review
surgery follow-up without a
reference to hospitalization, – Documentation and
admission or inpatient stay does evidence the member was
not imply a hospitalization and is seen for post-discharge
not considered evidence that the hospital follow-up
provider was aware of indicating the provider was
a hospitalization aware of the hospitalization
or discharge
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCMRP – Medication
Reconciliation Post-Discharge (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including,
but not limited to
• Medication reconciliation
does not require the
member to be present
• If the member is unable
to communicate with
provider, interaction
between the member’s
caregiver and the provider
meets numerator criteria
• The numerator assesses if
medication reconciliation
post discharge occurred.
It does not attempt to
assess of the quality of
the Medication list in the
medical record or process
used to document the
most recent Medication
list in the medical record.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCPE – Patient
Engagement After Inpatient Discharge
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
For members ages 18 and older, percentage of acute or non-acute inpatient discharges on or between
Jan. 1—Dec. 1 of the measurement year with engagement documented within 30 days of the discharge.
Do not include patient engagement that happens on the day of discharge.
Patient engagement can include any of the following:
• Outpatient visit (office or home)
• Telephone visit
• E-visit or virtual check-in between member and provider
• Telehealth visit
• Transitional care management
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
• Claim/encounter data
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Outpatient visits
CPT®/CPT II 99483, 99345, 99342, 99344, 99341, 99350, 99348, 99349, 99347, 99385, 99386,
99387, 99384, 99382, 99381, 99383, 99245, 99243, 99244, 99242, 99205, 99203,
99204, 99202, 99211, 99215, 99213, 99214, 99212, 99422, 99423, 99421, 99395,
99396, 99397, 99394, 99392, 99391, 99393, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411,
99412, 98971, 98972, 98970, 99458, 99457, 98981, 98980, 98967, 98968, 98966,
99442, 99443, 99441, 99429, 99456, 99455
HCPCS G0439, G0438, G2252, G2012, G2251, T1015, G0463, G0402, G0071, G2250, G2010
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCPE – Patient
Engagement After Inpatient Discharge (cont.)
Outpatient visits
SNOMED 866149003, 444971000124105, 84251009, 77406008, 50357006, 281036007,
209099002, 90526000, 456201000124103, 3391000175108, 185464004,
86013001, 439740005, 386472008, 314849005, 185317003, 386473003,
401267002, 185463005, 185465003
UBREV 0511, 0983, 0521, 0517, 0523, 0510, 0520, 0522, 0514, 0519, 0529, 0982, 0515, 0513,
0516, 0526, 0528, 0527
Transitional care management
CPT®/CPT II 99495, 99496
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCPE – Patient
Engagement After Inpatient Discharge (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
• Member engagement Member engagement • Health history and physical
must be completed within can include a: • Home health records
30 days of the discharge • Outpatient visit (e.g.,
• Progress notes
• Member engagement on in-home visit, office visit)
• Skilled nursing facility
the day of the discharge • Telehealth visit: Must include
minimum data set
will not be compliant real-time interaction with
(MDS) form
• If the member is unable the care provider
• SOAP notes
to communicate with • E-visit or virtual check-in
the provider, interaction • Transitional care
between the member’s management
caregiver and the provider
meets criteria
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCRDI – Receipt of
Discharge Information
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
For members ages 18 and older, percentage of acute or non-acute inpatient discharges on or
between Jan. 1—Dec. 1 of the measurement year with a receipt of discharge information documented
the day of or 2 days after the discharge (3 days total).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Hybrid
• This sub-measure is hybrid
ONLY. No administrative data
is available.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCRDI – Receipt of
Discharge Information (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not
limited to
• Administrative data doesn’t Discharge information must • Discharge care plan
count toward the numerator for include all of the following in the • Discharge summary
discharge notification outpatient medical record:
• Health history and
• In a shared electronic medical • The name of the care provider physical
responsible for the member’s
record system, a received • Home health records
care during the inpatient stay
date is not necessary to meet
• Progress notes
compliance for this numerator. • Services or treatments provided
• Skilled nursing
As long as the PCP or ongoing during the inpatient stay
facility minimum
provider has access to the • Diagnoses at discharge
data set (MDS) form
discharge information on the
• Test results or documentation
day of discharge or 2 days after • SOAP notes
that either test results are
discharge meets the intent of
pending or no test results
the measure.
are pending
• Discharge information may be • Instructions for patient care
included in, but not limited to, a post discharge to the PCP or
discharge summary or summary ongoing care provider
of care record or be located in
• Current Medication list
structured fields in an EHR
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Transitions of Care TRCRDI – Receipt of
Discharge Information (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Transitions of care help to decrease readmissions – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical structured
and medication errors. It also helps with data exchange program, we encourage you to
affordability and to improve communications include this demographic data with any structured
between members and their providers. data file or CCD. Your information is confidential.
• Transitions of care help to better coordinate care, UnitedHealthcare will keep personally identifiable
decreasing issues before they occur and leading information confidential and won't disclose any
to better member health outcomes information without your
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to written consent.
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Imaging Studies for Low Back Pain (LBP)
New for 2025
Added
• Added a diagnosis of osteoporosis to required exclusions
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–75 with a principal diagnosis of low back pain who did not have an
imaging study (plain X-ray, MRI, CT scan) within 28 days of the diagnosis .
This measure is reported as an inverted measure and a higher score indicates appropriate treatment
of low back pain, where imaging studies did not occur.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
The following codes are imaging studies that should be avoided with a diagnosis of uncomplicated
low back pain.
Imaging studies
CPT®/CPT II 72126, 72125, 72127, 72132, 72131, 72133, 72129, 72128, 72130, 72142, 72141, 72149,
72148, 72147, 72146, 72156, 72158, 72157, 72202, 72200, 72220, 72040, 72050,
72052,72082, 72083, 72084, 72081, 72100, 72120, 72114, 72110, 72020, 72070,
72072, 72074, 72080
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Imaging Studies for Low Back Pain (LBP)
(cont.)
Imaging Studies
SNOMED 2847006, 14871000087107, 713016000, 1251643002, 241592002,
16554061000119109, 702513003, 702514009, 702515005, 702516006, 711224009,
715290001, 723646000, 241580002, 702521009, 702522002, 709698004,
702523007, 572091000119106, 702487007, 702488002, 90523008, 429868005,
429860003, 431613003, 429871002, 711271003, 430021001, 430507007,
432244001, 440450002, 16328021000119109, 700320001, 700321002,
413001000119107, 702607002, 702608007, 16384831000119100, 241646009,
60443006, 571891000119109, 495741000119105, 411611000119102, 711184004,
711186002, 433141005, 433140006, 241648005, 431250008, 709652000,
726546000, 709653005, 41333006, 394451000119106, 700319007, 448641007,
241647000, 411571000119106, 91333005, 396171000119100, 772220000,
868279006, 17141000087101, 712970008, 3721000087104, 840361000,
3731000087102, 783627007, 443580006, 431496002, 711104001,
431557005, 22791004, 431892005, 431871005, 432078003, 444634007,
432770001, 715458009, 716830000, 718542005, 717912001, 718545007
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Imaging Studies for Low Back Pain (LBP)
(cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
• Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the • Frailty diagnoses must be in the
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. measurement year and on different
Members must meet both frailty and advanced illness dates of service
criteria to qualify as an exclusion:
• Advanced illness diagnosis must
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different
be in the measurement year or year
dates of service during the measurement year. Do not
prior to the measurement year
include claims where the frailty diagnosis was from an
independent lab (POS 81).
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by one of the following:
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different
dates of service during the measurement year or year
prior. Do not include claims where the advanced illness
diagnosis was from an independent lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil, Donepezil-
Memantine,Galantamine, Rivastigmine or Memantine
Any member who had a diagnosis where imaging is clinically appropriate including:
• Cancer Any time in a member’s history
• HIV through 28 days after the principal
diagnosis of low back pain between
• Major organ transplant
Jan. 1—Dec. 3 of the
• Osteoporosis or osteoporosis therapy
measurement year
• Lumbar surgery
• Spondylopathy
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Imaging Studies for Low Back Pain (LBP)
(cont.)
Exclusion Time frame
• Recent trauma Any time 90 days prior to or 28 days
• Fragility fractures after the principal diagnosis of low
back pain between Jan. 1—Dec. 3 of
the measurement year
Prolonged use of corticosteroids – 90 consecutive days of Dispensed any time 12 months prior
corticosteroid treatment to the principal diagnosis of low back
pain between Jan. 1—Dec. 3 of the
measurement year
• Intravenous drug abuse Any time 12 months prior to or 28
• Neurologic impairment days after the principal diagnosis of
low back pain between Jan.1—Dec. 3
of the measurement year
Spinal infection Any time 12 months prior to or 28
days after the principal diagnosis of
low back pain between Jan. 1—Dec. 3
of the measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Imaging Studies for Low Back Pain (LBP)
(cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or Test, service or procedure to
procedure to avoid close care opportunity
The imaging studies listed in • CT scan
the column at right are not • MRI
clinically appropriate for a
• Plain X-ray
diagnosis of uncomplicated
low back pain.
The principal diagnosis of • E-visit or virtual check-in
uncomplicated low back • Osteopathic or chiropractic
pain can come from any manipulative treatment
of the services listed in
• Outpatient visit
the column at right for a
• Physical therapy visit
member to be included in
• Telephone visit
this measure.
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity gender identity, pronouns, sex assigned at
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to birth and disability status.
see members with open care opportunities. – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare structured data exchange program, we
representative can help encourage you to include this demographic
• Sharing member demographic data is critical data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
to understanding the cultural, linguistic and information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
social needs of those we serve and decreasing will keep personally identifiable information
health inequities across the care continuum. confidential and won't disclose any information
This data can include, but is not limited to, without your written consent.
race, ethnicity, language, sexual orientation,
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Adherence to Antipsychotic Medications
for Individuals With Schizophrenia (SAA)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 and older during the measurement year with schizophrenia or
schizoaffective disorder who were dispensed and remained on an antipsychotic medication for at least
80% of the treatment period.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
Medications
To comply with this measure, a member must have remained on 1 of the following antipsychotic
medications for at least 80% of the treatment period.
Oral antipsychotic medications
Drug category Medications
Miscellaneous • Aripiprazole • Lumateperone
antipsychotic • Asenapine • Lurisadone
agents (oral)
• Brexpiprazole • Molindone
• Cariprazine • Olanzapine
• Clozapine • Paliperidone
• Haloperidol • Quetiapine
• Iloperidone • Risperidone
• Loxapine • Ziprasidone
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Adherence to Antipsychotic Medications for
Individuals With Schizophrenia (SAA) (cont.)
Drug category Medications
Phenothiazine • Chlorpromazine • Prochlorperazine
antipsychotics (oral) • Fluphenazine • Thioridazine
• Perphenazine • Trifluoperazine
Psychotherapeutic • Amitriptyline-perphenazine
combinations (oral)
Thioxanthenes (oral) • Thiothixene
Long-acting injections • Risperidone (excluding Perseris®)
14-day supply
Long-acting injections • Aripiprazole • Olanzapine
28-day supply • Aripiprazole lauroxil
• Fluphenazine decanoate
• Haloperidol decanoate
Long-acting injections • Risperidone (Perseris®)
30-day supply
Long-acting injections • Paliperidone palmitate (Invega
35-day supply Sustenna)
Long-acting injections • Paliperidone palmitate (Invega
104-day supply Trinza®)
Long-acting injections • Paliperidone palmitate (Invega
201-day supply Hafyera™)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Adherence to Antipsychotic Medications for
Individuals With Schizophrenia (SAA) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Diagnosis of dementia
• Members ages 81 and older as of Dec. 31 of the
measurement year who had at least 2 diagnoses of frailty*
on different dates of service
• Members who did not have at least 2 antipsychotic
medication dispensing events. There are 2 ways to identify
dispensing events: by Claim/encounter data and by
Pharmacy data.
Members ages 66-80 as of Dec. 31 of the measurement year • Frailty diagnoses must be in
with frailty and advanced illness. Members must meet both the measurement year and on
frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify as an exclusion: different dates of service
• Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
• Advanced illness diagnosis
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims
must be in the measurement
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent
year or year prior to the
lab (POS 81).
measurement year
• Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
– At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do
not include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis
was from an independent lab (POS 81).
– Dispensed dementia medication: Donepezil, Donepezil-
Memantine, Galantamine, Rivastigmine or Memantine
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
• Living long term in an institution*
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Adherence to Antipsychotic Medications for
Individuals With Schizophrenia (SAA) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on medication compliance. language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
• Encourage patients to take medications pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
as prescribed disability status.
• Offer tips to patients such as: – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
structured data exchange program, we
– Take medication at the same time each day
encourage you to include this demographic
– Use a pill box
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
– Enroll in a pharmacy
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
automatic-refill program
will keep personally identifiable information
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
confidential and won't disclose any
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
information without your written consent.
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Cardiovascular Monitoring for People With
Cardiovascular Disease and Schizophrenia (SMC)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–64 with schizophrenia or
schizoaffective disorder and cardiovascular disease who had a
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) test during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicaid • Select Medicaid Administrative
State reporting • Claim/encounter
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
LDL-C Test
CPT®/CPT II 80061, 83700, 83701, 83704, 83721, 3048F, 3049F, 3050F
LOINC 12773-8, 13457-7, 18261-8, 18262-6, 2089-1, 49132-4, 55440-2, 96259-7
SNOMED 113079009, 166833005, 166840006, 166841005, 167074000,
167075004, 314036004
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Cardiovascular Monitoring for People With
Cardiovascular Disease and Schizophrenia (SMC)
(cont.)
Important note
A calculated or direct LDL may be used to report compliance.
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on appropriate monitoring • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
for members with schizophrenia or schizoaffective understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
disorder and cardiovascular disease. needs of those we serve and decreasing health
• Be sure to schedule an annual LDL-C screening inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
• The use of CPT(R) Category II codes helps
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes such
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
as lipid profile and LDL-C test results. It can also
disability status.
reduce the need for some chart review.
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
• CPT II Codes that are on a lab claim (POS 81)
structured data exchange program, we
or include a modifier do not count toward
encourage you to include this demographic
numerator compliance
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
• Lipid profiles and results can be accepted
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
as supplemental data, reducing the need
will keep personally identifiable information
for some chart review. Please contact your
confidential and won't disclose any
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
information without your written consent.
clinical data exchange opportunities.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Diabetes Monitoring for People With Diabetes
and Schizophrenia (SMD)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–64 with schizophrenia or
schizoaffective disorder and diabetes who had both an HbA1c test and a low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (LDL-C) test during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicaid • Select Medicaid State Administrative
reporting • Claim/encounter data
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended
to be a directive of your billing practice.
HbA1c test
CPT®/CPT II 83036, 83037, 3044F, 3046F, 3051F, 3052F
LOINC 17855-8, 17856-6, 4548-4, 4549-2, 96595-4
SNOMED 43396009, 313835008, 165679005, 451061000124104
LDL-C test
CPT®/CPT II 80061, 83700, 83701, 83704, 83721, 3048F, 3049F, 3050F
LOINC 12773-8, 13457-7, 18261-8, 18262-6, 2089-1, 49132-4, 55440-2, 96259-7
SNOMED 113079009, 166833005, 166840006, 166841005, 167074000, 167075004,
314036004
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Diabetes Monitoring for People With Diabetes
and Schizophrenia (SMD) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure
to close care opportunity
• Individual tests to measure cholesterol and • HbA1c test
blood glucose levels can be done on the same • LDL-C test
or different dates of service
HbA1c tests may include:
• The member must have both tests to be
• A1c, HbA1c, HgbA1c
compliant for this measure
• Glycohemoglobin
• Glycohemoglobin A1c
• Glycated hemoglobin
• Glycosylated hemoglobin
• HB1c
• Hemoglobin A1c
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Diabetes Monitoring for People With Diabetes
and Schizophrenia (SMD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on appropriate monitoring • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
for members with schizophrenia or schizoaffective understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
disorder and diabetes. needs of those we serve and decreasing health
• Be sure to schedule an annual HbA1c and inequities across the care continuum. This data
LDL-C test can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
• The use of CPT Category II codes helps
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes
disability status.
such as HbA1c and LDL-C test results. It can also
reduce the need for some chart review. – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
structured data exchange program, we
• CPT II Codes that are on a lab claim (POS 81)
encourage you to include this demographic
or include a modifier do not count toward
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
numerator compliance
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
• HbA1c and lipid profile test results can be
will keep personally identifiable information
accepted as supplemental data, reducing the
confidential and won't disclose any
need for some chart review. Please contact your
information without your written consent.
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
clinical data exchange opportunities.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Diabetes Screening for People With Schizophrenia
or Bipolar Disorder Who Are Using Antipsychotic
Medications (SSD)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18–64 with schizophrenia, schizoaffective
disorder or bipolar disorder who were dispensed an antipsychotic medication
and had a diabetes screening test during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Select Medicaid state • Claim/encounter data
reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Glucose test
CPT®/CPT II 80047, 80048, 80050, 80053, 80069, 82947, 82950, 82951
LOINC 10450-5, 1492-8, 1494-4, 1496-9, 1499-3, 1501-6, 1504-0, 1507-3, 1514-9, 1518-
0, 1530-5, 1533-9, 1554-5, 1557-8, 1558-6, 17865-7, 20436-2, 20437-0, 20438-8,
20440-4, 2345-7, 26554-6, 41024-1, 49134-0, 6749-6, 9375-7
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Diabetes Screening for People With Schizophrenia
or Bipolar Disorder Who Are Using Antipsychotic
Medications (SSD) (cont.)
Glucose test
SNOMED 104686004, 1179458001, 1259140002, 166890005, 166891009, 166892002,
166921001, 166922008, 167086002, 167087006, 167088001, 167095005,
167096006, 167097002, 22569008, 250417005, 271061004, 271062006,
271063001, 271064007, 271065008, 275810004, 302788006, 302789003,
308113006, 313474007, 313545000, 313546004, 313624000, 313626003,
313627007, 313628002, 313630000, 313631001, 313697000, 313698005,
313810002, 33747003, 412928005, 440576000, 442545002, 443780009,
444008003, 444127006, 444780001, 52302001, 72191006, 73128004, 88856000
HbA1c test
CPT®/CPT II 83036, 83037, 3044F, 3046F, 3051F, 3052F
LOINC 17855-8, 17856-6, 4548-4, 4549-2, 96595-4
SNOMED 43396009, 313835008, 165679005, 451061000124104
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Members with diabetes. There are 2 ways to identify Measurement year or year
members with diabetes: prior to measurement year
- Claim/encounter data
- Pharmacy data
• Members who did not have any antipsychotic Any time during the
medication dispensing events. There are 2 ways to identify measurement year
members with diabetes:
- Claim/encounter data
- Pharmacy data
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Diabetes Screening for People With Schizophrenia
or Bipolar Disorder Who Are Using Antipsychotic
Medications (SSD) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure
to close care opportunity
HbA1c test must be performed during the • Glucose test
measurement year. • HbA1c test
HbA1c tests may include:
• A1c, HbA1c, HgbA1c
• Glycohemoglobin
• Glycohemoglobin A1c
• Glycated hemoglobin
• Glycosylated hemoglobin
• HB1c
• Hemoglobin A1c
• Members who did not have any antipsychotic • Any time during the measurement year
medication dispensing events. There are 2
ways to identify members with diabetes:
– Claim/encounter data
– Pharmacy data
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Diabetes Screening for People With Schizophrenia
or Bipolar Disorder Who Are Using Antipsychotic
Medications (SSD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on appropriate • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
monitoring for members with schizophrenia or understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
bipolar disorder. needs of those we serve and decreasing health
• Be sure to schedule an annual screening for inequities across the care continuum. This data
diabetes (HbA1c or blood glucose) can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes
disability status.
such as HbA1c test results. It can also reduce the
need for some chart review. – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
structured data exchange program, we
• CPT II Codes that are on a lab claim (POS 81)
encourage you to include this demographic
or include a modifier do not count toward
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
numerator compliance
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
• HbA1c test results can be accepted as
will keep personally identifiable information
supplemental data, reducing the need for
confidential and won't disclose any
some chart review. Please contact your
information without your written consent.
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
clinical data exchange opportunities.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH)
New for 2025
Yes!
Added
Supplemental
• Medical providers (including primary care) as well as mental
data accepted
health providers are allowed to close the FUH gap using qualified
billing codes and diagnostic codes
• Diagnosis of a mental health disorder was added to the visit
setting scenarios for gap closure criteria
• Peer support and residential treatment services scenarios were added to the gap
closure criteria
Definition
Percentage of discharges for members ages 6 and older who were hospitalized for a principal
diagnosis of mental illness, or any diagnosis of intentional self-harm and had a mental health
follow-up service.
Two rates are reported:
1. Percentage of discharges where the member received follow-up within 30 days of their discharge
2. Percentage of discharges where the member received follow-up within 7 days of their discharge
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Medicaid (7-day only) • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
(7-day only)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Code
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Scenario 1: Behavioral health outpatient visit with a mental health provider OR
with any diagnosis of mental health disorder
Behavioral health visits
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213,
99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99343, 99344, 99345,
99347, 99348, 99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387,
99391, 99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404,
99411, 99412, 99483, 99492, 99493, 99494, 99510 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003,
98004, 98005, 98006, 98007
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0463, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031, H0034,
H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2010, H2011, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016,
H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, T1015, G0560
SNOMED 185463005, 185464004, 185465003, 209099002, 281036007, 3391000175108,
391223001, 391224007, 391225008, 391233009, 391237005, 391239008,
391242002, 391257009, 391260002, 391261003, 439740005, 444971000124105,
456201000124103, 50357006, 77406008, 84251009, 86013001, 866149003,
90526000
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0515, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0900, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0911, 0914, 0915, 0916, 0917, 0919, 0982, 0983
Scenario 2: Intensive outpatient or partial hospitalization
Partial hospitalization/intensive outpatient visits
HCPCS G0410, G0411, H0035, H2001, H2012, S0201, S9480, S9484, S9485
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Partial Hospitalization/Intensive Outpatient visits
SNOMED 305345009, 305346005, 305347001, 391038005, 391042008, 391043003,
391046006, 391047002, 391048007, 391054008, 391055009, 391056005,
391133003, 391150001, 391151002, 391152009, 391153004, 391170007, 391185001,
391186000, 391187009, 391188004, 391191004, 391192006, 391194007, 391195008,
391207001, 391208006, 391209003, 391210008, 391211007, 391228005,
391229002, 391232004, 391252003, 391254002, 391255001, 391256000, 7133001
UBREV 0905, 0907, 0912, 0913
Scenario 3: Outpatient visit with a mental health provider OR with any diagnosis of mental health
disorder, and with the appropriate service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 17 Walk-in retail health clinic
05 Indian health service 18 Place of employment – worksite
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 20 Urgent care facility
11 Office 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
12 Home 33 Custodial care facility
13 Assisted living facility 49 Independent clinic
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Code Location
14 Group home 50 Federally qualified health center
15 Mobile unit 71 Public health clinic
16 Temporary lodging 72 Rural health clinic
Scenario 4: Intensive outpatient visit or partial hospitalization with appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
Scenario 5: Community mental health center visit with appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
Behavioral health visits
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213,
99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99343, 99344, 99345,
99347, 99348, 99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387,
99391, 99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404,
99411, 99412, 99483, 99492, 99493, 99494, 99510, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003,
98004, 98005, 98006, 98007
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0463, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031, H0034,
H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2010, H2011, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016,
H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, T1015, G0560
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Behavioral health visits
SNOMED 185463005, 185464004, 185465003, 209099002, 281036007, 3391000175108,
391223001, 391224007, 391225008, 391233009, 391237005, 391239008,
391242002, 391257009, 391260002, 391261003, 439740005, 444971000124105,
456201000124103, 50357006, 77406008, 84251009, 86013001, 866149003,
90526000
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0515, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0900, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0911, 0914, 0915, 0916, 0917, 0919, 0982, 0983
Transitional care management services
CPT®/CPT II 99495, 99496
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
53 Community mental health center
Scenario 6: Electroconvulsive therapy with appropriate place of service code
Electroconvulsive Therapy
CPT®/CPT II 90870
ICD-10 Procedure GZB0ZZZ, GZB1ZZZ, GZB2ZZZ, GZB3ZZZ, GZB4ZZZ
SNOMED 10470002, 11075005, 23835007, 231079005, 231080008, 284468008, 313019002,
313020008, 1010696002, 1010697006
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
05 Indian Health Service 20 Urgent care facility
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 24 Ambulatory surgical center
11 Office 33 Custodial care facility
12 Home 49 Independent clinic
13 Assisted living facility 50 Federally qualified health center
14 Group home 52 Psychiatric facility – partial
hospitalization
15 Mobile unit 53 Community mental health center
16 Temporary lodging 71 Public health clinic
17 Walk-in retail health clinic 72 Rural health clinic
18 Place of employment – worksite
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Scenario 7: Transitional care management services with a mental health provider OR with any
diagnosis of mental health disorder
Transitional care management Services
CPT®/CPT II 99495, 99496
Scenario 8: Telehealth visit with a mental health provider OR with any diagnosis of mental
health disorder
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
02 Telehealth provided other than in patient’s home
10 Telehealth provided in patient’s home
Scenario 9: Behavioral health care setting visit
Behavioral healthcare setting
UBREV 0513, 0900, 0901, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0905, 0907, 0911, 0912, 0913, 0914, 0915,
0916, 0917, 0919, 1001
Scenario 10: Telephone visit with a mental health provider OR with any diagnosis of mental
health disorder
Telephone visits
CPT®/CPT II 98966, 98967, 98968, 99441, 99442, 99443, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012,
98013, 98014, 98015
SNOMED 185317003, , 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 401267002
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Scenario 11: Psychiatric collaborative care management
Psychiatric collaborative care management
CPT®/CPT II 99492, 99493, 99494
Scenario 12: Peer support services with any diagnosis of mental health disorder
Peer support services
HCPCS G0140, G0177, H0024, H0025, H0038, H0039, H0040, H0046, H2014, H2023,
S9445, T1012, T1016, T1017
Scenario 13: Psychiatric residential treatment
Residential behavioral health treatment
HCPCS H0017, H0018, H0019, T2048
Visit setting unspecified with appropriate place of service code
CPT® 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
56 Psychiatric residential treatment center
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
• Visits that occur on the date of discharge will not count toward compliance
• Telehealth and telephone visits are acceptable to address the care opportunity
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Hospitalization for
Mental Illness (FUH) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on follow-up treatment. • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
• Refer patient to be seen within 7 days understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
of discharge needs of those we serve and decreasing health
- Any medical or behavioral health provider can inequities across the care continuum. This data
see the patient post discharge and need to bill can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
using the qualified codes and mental health language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
diagnosis and with appropriate place of service pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
locations disability status.
• Visits can be telehealth with a mental health – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
provider OR with any diagnosis of mental structured data exchange program, we
health disorder. encourage you to include this demographic
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
• If a situation arises where a patient is unable to
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
be seen within 7 days, then they need to have an
will keep personally identifiable information
appointment within 30 days of discharge
confidential and won't disclose any
• If you need to refer your patient to a behavioral
information without your written consent.
health network practitioner for further
• Offer National Suicide Prevention Lifeline "988"
assessment and/or additional treatment, call
for patients to call, text or chat when needed
the Behavioral Health number on the back of
their UnitedHealthcare member ID card
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
The percentage of acute inpatient hospitalizations, residential
treatment or withdrawal management visits for a diagnosis of substance
use disorder among members ages 13 and older that result in a follow-up visit or service for
substance use disorder.
Two rates are reported:
1. The percentage of visits or discharges for which the member received follow-up for substance
use disorder within the 7 days after the visit or discharge
2. The percentage of visits or discharges for which the member received follow-up for substance
use disorder within the 30 days after the visit or discharge
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Health Plan Ratings Administrative
• Medicaid (7-day only) • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Any of the following scenarios will meet compliance for these numerators:
Scenario 1: Acute or nonacute inpatient admission or residential behavioral health stay with a principal
diagnosis of substance use disorder
Inpatient stay
UBREV 0100, 0101, 0110, 0111, 0112, 0113, 0114, 0116, 0117, 0118, 0119, 0120, 0121, 0122, 0123,
0124, 0126, 0127, 0128, 0129, 0130, 0131, 0132, 0133, 0134, 0136, 0137, 0138, 0139,
0140, 0141, 0142, 0143, 0144, 0146, 0147, 0148, 0149, 0150, 0151, 0152, 0153, 0154,
0156, 0157, 0158, 0159, 0160, 0164, 0167, 0169, 0170, 0171, 0172, 0173, 0174, 0179,
0190, 0191, 0192, 0193, 0194, 0199, 0200, 0201, 0202, 0203, 0204, 0206, 0207, 0208,
0209, 0210, 0211, 0212, 0213, 0214, 0219, 1000, 1001, 1002
Scenario 2: Outpatient visit with a principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 17 Walk-in retail health clinic
05 Indian Health Service 18 Place of employment – worksite
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Code Location
09 Prison/correctional facility 20 Urgent care facility
11 Office 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
12 Home 33 Custodial care facility
13 Assisted living facility 49 Independent clinic
14 Group home 50 Federally qualified health center
15 Mobile unit 71 Public health clinic
16 Temporary lodging 72 Rural health clinic
Scenario 3: Behavioral health visit with a principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Behavioral health visit
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213,
99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99343, 99344, 99345,
99347, 99348, 99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387,
99391, 99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404,
99411, 99412, 99483, 99492, 99493, 99494, 99510, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003,
98004, 98005, 98006, 98007
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0463, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031, H0034,
H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2010, H2011, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016,
H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, T1015, G0560
SNOMED 185463005, 185464004, 185465003, 209099002, 281036007, 3391000175108,
391223001, 391224007, 391225008, 391233009, 391237005, 391239008,
391242002, 391257009, 391260002, 391261003, 439740005, 444971000124105,
456201000124103, 50357006, 77406008, 84251009, 86013001, 866149003,
90526000
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0515, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0900, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0911, 0914, 0915, 0916, 0917, 0919, 0982, 0983
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Scenario 4: Intensive outpatient visit or partial hospitalization with appropriate place of service code
with a principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
Scenario 5: Intensive outpatient or partial hospitalization with a principal diagnosis of
substance use disorder
Partial hospitalization/intensive outpatient visits
HCPCS G0410, G0411, H0035, H2001, H2012, S0201, S9480, S9484, S9485
SNOMED 391047002, 391048007, 391054008, 391055009, 391056005, 391133003,
391150001, 391151002, 391152009, 391153004, 391170007, 391185001, 391186000,
391187009, 391188004, 391191004, 391192006, 391194007, 391195008, 391207001,
391208006, 391209003, 391210008, 391211007, 391228005, 391229002,
391232004, 391252003, 391254002, 391255001, 391256000, 7133001
UBREV 0905, 0907, 0912, 0913
Scenario 6: Opioid treatment service billed weekly or monthly with a principal diagnosis of
substance use disorder
Weekly non-drug treatment
HCPCS G2071, G2074, G2075, G2076, G2077, G2080
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Monthly office-based treatment
HCPCS G2086, G2087, G2069
Scenario 7: Substance use disorder counseling and surveillance with a principal diagnosis
of substance use disorder
Substance abuse counseling and surveillance
ICD-10-CM Z71.41, Z71.51
Do not include lab claims from an independent lab (POS 81)
Scenario 8: Telehealth visit with appropriate place of service code with a principal diagnosis of
substance use disorder
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
02 Telehealth provided other than in patient’s home
10 Telehealth provided in patient’s home
Scenario 9: Community mental health center visit with appropriate place of service code with a
principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99251, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Code Location
53 Community mental health center
Scenario 10: Non-residential substance abuse treatment facility visit with appropriate place of
service code with a principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845, 90847,
90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233, 99238, 99239,
99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
57 Non-residential substance abuse treatment facility
58 Non-residential opioid treatment facility
Scenario 11: Substance use disorder service with a principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Substance use disorder service
CPT®/CPT II 99408, 99409
G0396, G0397, G0443, H0001, H0005, H0007, H0015, H0016, H0022, H0047,
HCPCS
H0050, H2035, H2036, T1006, T1012
182969009, 20093000, 23915005, 266707007, 310653000, 370776007,
SNOMED
370854007, 385989002, 386449006, 386450006, 386451005, 414054004, 414056002,
414283008, 414501008, 415662004, 428211000124100, 445628007, 445662007,
450760003, 56876005, 61480009, 64297001, 67516001, 704182008, 707166002,
711008001, 713106006, 713107002, 713127001, 720174008, 720175009, 720176005,
720177001, 763104007, 763233002, 763302001, 772813001, 774090004, 774091000,
792901003, 792902005, 827094004, 865964007, 87106005
UBREV 0906, 0944, 0945
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Scenario 12: Residential behavioral health treatment with a principal diagnosis of substance
use disorder
Residential behavioral health treatment
HCPCS H0017, H0018, H0019, T2048
Scenario 13: Telephone visit with a principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Telephone visit
CPT®/CPT II 98966, 98967, 98968, 99441, 99442, 99443, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012,
98013, 98014, 98015
SNOMED 185317003, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 401267002
Scenario 14: E-visit or virtual check-in with a principal diagnosis of substance use disorder
Online assessment (e-visit/virtual check-in)
CPT®/CPT II 98016, 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981, 99421, 99422, 99423, 99457, 99458
HCPCS G0071, G2010, G2012, G2250, G2251, G2252
Scenario 15: Pharmacotherapy dispensing event or Medication treatment event for alcohol or
opioid use disorder
Medication treatment
HCPCS G2069, G2070, G2072, G2073, H0020, H0033, J0570, J0571, J0572, J0573, J0574,
J0575, J0577, J0578, J2315, Q9991, Q9992, S0109
SNOMED 310653000
Opioid treatment service – Weekly billing
HCPCS HCPCS G2067, G2068, G2070, G2072, G2073, G0533
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Medications
One or more medication dispensing events for alcohol use disorder treatment:
Drug category Medications
Aldehyde • Disulfiram (oral)
dehydrogenase
inhibitor
Antagonist • Naltrexone (oral and injectable)
Other • Acamprosate (oral; delayed-release tablet)
One or more medication dispensing events for opioid use disorder treatment:
Drug category Medications
Antagonist • Naltrexone (oral and injectable)
Partial agonist • Buprenorphine (sublingual tablet, injection, implant)*
• Buprenorphine/naloxone (sublingual tablet, buccal film, sublingual film)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure
to close care opportunity
Episode date is the date of service for any acute Follow-up for substance use disorder can be
inpatient discharge, residential treatment or any of the following:
withdrawal management visit with a principal • Group visits with an appropriate Place of
diagnosis of substance use disorder with any service code and diagnosis code
provider type on or between Jan. 1 and Dec. 1
• Medication dispensing event with
of the measurement year.
diagnosis code
• Medication treatment with diagnosis code
• Online assessment with diagnosis code
• Stand-alone visits with an appropriate Place
of service code and diagnosis code
• Telephone visit with diagnosis code
• Residential behavioral health treatment
• Non-residential substance abuse
treatment facility
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After High-Intensity Care for
Substance Use Disorder (FUI) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on follow-up treatment with • If you need to refer your patient to a substance
any provider type. use specialist or need to request coordination
• See patients within 7 days and bill with a of care, please call the number on the back
substance use diagnosis of the patient’s health plan ID card or search
liveandworkwell.com
• If a situation arises where a patient is unable to
be seen within 7 days, then they need to have an • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
appointment within 30 days of discharge understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
• Encourage the use of telehealth appointments
inequities across the care continuum. This data
when appropriate
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
• Available resources:
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
– Alcohol and drug use screening tools:
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
– providerexpress.com > Clinical Resources disability status.
> Behavioral Health Toolkits for
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
Medical Providers
structured data exchange program, we
– Behavioral health tools and information: encourage you to include this demographic
providerexpress.com > Clinical Resources > data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
Behavioral Health Toolkit for information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
Medical Providers will keep personally identifiable information
– Patient education: liveandworkwell.com confidential and won't disclose any
> Browse as a guest with company access information without your
code > Use access code “clinician” > Explore written consent.
and Learn
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department
Visit for Mental Illness (FUM)
New for 2025
Added
Yes!
• The following scenarios were added to the gap closure criteria:
Supplemental
- Peer support services
data accepted
- Residential treatment
- Visits in a behavioral health care setting
- Psychiatric collaborative care management services
Removed
• Removed requirement of both a mental health diagnosis and self-harm diagnosis from
gap closure criteria
• Removed the mental health diagnosis requirement for the following gap closure scenarios:
- Partial hospitalization/intensive outpatient visits
- Community mental health center visits
- Electroconvulsive therapy
Definition
The percentage of emergency department visits for members ages 6 years and older with a principal
diagnosis of mental illness or any diagnosis of intentional self-harm, who then had a follow-up visit
for mental illness.
Two rates are reported:
1. The percentage of ED visits for which the member received follow-up for mental illness
within the 7 days after the visit (8 days total)
2. The percentage of ED visits for which the member received follow-up for mental illness
within the 30 days after the visit (31 days total)
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
• Medicare
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department
Visit for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended
to be a directive of your billing practice.
Scenario 1: Behavioral health outpatient visit with any diagnosis of a mental health disorder
Behavioral health visits
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213,
99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345, 99347,
99348, 99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99391,
99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411,
99412, 99483, 99492, 99493, 99494, 99510, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004,
98005, 98006, 98007
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0463, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031, H0034,
H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2010, H2011, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016,
H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, T1015, G0560
SNOMED 185463005, 185464004, 185465003, 209099002, 281036007, 3391000175108,
391223001, 391224007, 391225008, 391233009, 391237005, 391239008,
391242002, 391257009, 391260002, 391261003, 439740005, 444971000124105,
456201000124103, 50357006, 77406008, 84251009, 86013001, 866149003,
90526000
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0515, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0900, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0911, 0914, 0915, 0916, 0917, 0919, 0982, 0983
Scenario 2: Intensive outpatient or partial hospitalization with any diagnosis of a mental
health disorder
Partial hospitalization/intensive outpatient visits
HCPCS G0410, G0411, H0035, H2001, H2012, S0201, S9480, S9484, S9485
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department
Visit for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
SNOMED 305345009, 305346005, 305347001, 391038005, 391042008, 391043003,
391046006, 391047002, 391048007, 391054008, 391055009, 391056005,
391133003, 391150001, 391151002, 391152009, 391153004, 391170007, 391185001,
391186000, 391187009, 391188004, 391191004, 391192006, 391194007, 391195008,
391207001, 391208006, 391209003, 391210008, 391211007, 391228005,
391229002, 391232004, 391252003, 391254002, 391255001, 391256000, 7133001
UBREV 0905, 0907, 0912, 0913
Scenario 3: Outpatient visit with any diagnosis of a mental health disorder type and with
appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 17 Walk-in retail health clinic
05 Indian Health Service 18 Place of employment – worksite
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 20 Urgent care facility
11 Office 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
12 Home 33 Custodial care facility
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department
Visit for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
Code Location
13 Assisted living facility 49 Independent clinic
14 Group home 50 Federally qualified health center
15 Mobile unit 71 Public health clinic
16 Temporary lodging 72 Rural health clinic
Scenario 4: Intensive outpatient visit or partial hospitalization with appropriate place of service code
Place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
Scenario 5: Community mental health center visit with appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/ 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845, 90847,
CPT II 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233, 99238, 99239, 99252,
99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
53 Community mental health center
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department
Visit for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
Scenario 6: Electroconvulsive therapy with appropriate place of service code
Electroconvulsive therapy
CPT®/CPT II 90870
ICD-10 Procedure GZB0ZZZ, GZB1ZZZ, GZB2ZZZ, GZB3ZZZ, GZB4ZZZ
SNOMED 10470002, 11075005, 23835007, 231079005, 231080008, 284468008, 313019002,
313020008, 1010696002, 1010697006
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
05 Indian Health Service 20 Urgent care facility
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 24 Ambulatory surgical center
11 Office 33 Custodial care facility
12 Home 49 Independent clinic
13 Assisted living facility 50 Federally qualified health center
14 Group home 52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
15 Mobile unit 53 Community mental health center
16 Temporary lodging 71 Public health clinic
17 Walk-in retail health clinic 72 Rural health clinic
18 Place of employment – worksite
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department
Visit for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
Scenario 7: Telehealth visit with any diagnosis of a mental health disorder and the appropriate
place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
02 Telehealth provided other than in patient’s home
10 Telehealth provided in patient’s home
Scenario 8: Telephone visit with any diagnosis of a mental health disorder
Telephone visits
CPT®/CPT II 98966, 98967, 98968, 99441, 99442, 99443, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012,
98013, 98014, 98015
SNOMED 185317003, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 401267002
Scenario 9: E-Visit or virtual check-in with any diagnosis of a mental health disorder
Online assessment (e-visit/virtual check-in)
CPT®/CPT II 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981, 99421, 99422, 99423, 99457, 99458, 98016
HCPCS G0071, G2010, G2012, G2250, G2251, G2252
Scenario 10: Psychiatric collaborative care management
Psychiatric collaborative care management
CPT®/CPT II 99494, 99492, 99493
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
HCPCS G0512
Scenario 11: Peer support services with any diagnosis of a mental health disorder
Peer support services
HCPCS G0140, G0177, H0024, H0025, H0038, H0039, H0040, H0046, H2014, H2023,
S9445, T1012, T1016, T1017
Scenario 12: Psychiatric residential treatment
Residential behavioral health treatment
HCPCS H0017, H0018, H0019, T2048
Scenario 13: Psychiatric residential treatment with the appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
56 Psychiatric Residential Treatment Cente
Scenario 14: Visit in a behavioral health care setting
Behavioral health care setting
UBREV 0513, 0900, 0901, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0905, 0907, 0911, 0912, 0913, 0914, 0915,
0916, 0917, 0919, 1001
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
• Visits that result in an inpatient stay are not included
• Telehealth visits are acceptable to address the care opportunity
• A follow-up visit can occur on the same day as discharge to address the care opportunity
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Mental Illness (FUM) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
This measure focuses on follow-up treatment • Mental health visits can be accepted as
with a primary care provider or a behavioral supplemental data. Please contact your
health practitioner. UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
• See patients within 7 days and bill with a mental clinical data exchange opportunities.
health diagnosis • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
• If a situation arises where a patient is unable to understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
be seen within 7 days, then they need to have an needs of those we serve and decreasing health
appointment within 30 days of discharge inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
• Encourage the use of telehealth appointments
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
when appropriate
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
• If you need to refer your patient to a behavioral
disability status.
health specialist or need to request coordination
– As part of UnitedHealthcare's clinical you
of care, please call the number on the back
to include this demographic data with any
of the patient’s health plan ID card or search
structured data file or CCD. Your information
liveandworkwell.com
is confidential. UnitedHealthcare will
• Available resources:
keep personally identifiable information
– Behavioral health screening tools and
confidential and consent.
resources: providerexpress.com
– Patient education: liveandworkwell.com >
Browse as a guest with company access code >
Use access code “clinician” > Explore and Learn
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure Yes!
Supplemental
Definition data accepted
The percentage of emergency department visits for members ages
13 and older with a principal diagnosis of substance
use disorder (SUD) or any drug overdose diagnosis and who had a follow-up visit.
Two rates are reported:
1. The percentage of ED visits for which the member received follow-up for SUD within the
7 days after the visit (8 days total)
2. The percentage of visits or discharges for which the member received follow-up for SUD within
the 30 days after the visit (31 days total)
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • ACO Quality Gate
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA) (cont.)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
Any of the following scenarios will meet criteria for the measure when the above diagnoses are present.
Scenario 1: Outpatient visit with any diagnosis of substance use disorder or drug overdose OR with a
mental health provider with the appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 17 Walk-in retail health clinic
05 Indian Health Service 18 Place of employment – worksite
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 20 Urgent care facility
11 Office 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
12 Home 33 Custodial care facility
13 Assisted living facility 49 Independent clinic
14 Group home 50 Federally qualified health center
15 Mobile unit 71 Public health clinic
16 Temporary lodging 72 Rural health clinic
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA) (cont.)
Scenario 2: Behavioral health visit with any diagnosis of substance use disorder or drug overdose
OR with a mental health provider
Behavioral health visit
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213,
99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345, 99347,
99348, 99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99391,
99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411,
99412, 99483, 99492, 99493, 99494, 99510, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004,
98005, 98006, 98007
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0463, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031, H0034,
H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2010, H2011, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016,
H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, T1015, G0560
SNOMED 866149003, 444971000124105, 84251009, 77406008, 50357006, 281036007,
209099002, 90526000, 456201000124103, 391261003, 391257009, 391260002,
391225008, 391223001, 391224007, 3391000175108, 185464004, 86013001,
439740005, 391242002, 391237005, 391239008, 391233009, 185463005,
185465003
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0515, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0900, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0911, 0914, 0915, 0916, 0917, 0919, 0982, 0983
Scenario 3: Intensive outpatient visit or partial hospitalization with appropriate place of service code
with a mental health provider or with a diagnosis of substance use disorder or drug overdose
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA) (cont.)
Scenario 4: Intensive outpatient or partial hospitalization with a mental health provider or with a
diagnosis of substance
Use disorder or drug overdose partial hospitalization/intensive outpatient visits
HCPCS G0410, G0411, H0035, H2001, H2012, S0201, S9480, S9484, S9485
SNOMED 305345009, 305346005, 305347001, 391038005, 391042008, 391043003,
391046006, 391047002, 391048007, 391054008, 391055009, 391056005,
391133003, 391150001, 391151002, 391152009, 391153004, 391170007, 391185001,
391186000, 391187009, 391188004, 391191004, 391192006, 391194007, 391195008,
391207001, 391208006, 391209003, 391210008, 391211007, 391228005,
391229002, 391232004, 391252003, 391254002, 391255001, 391256000, 7133001
UBREV 0905, 0907, 0912, 0913
Scenario 5: Opioid treatment service with a diagnosis of substance use disorder or drug overdose
Weekly non-drug treatment
HCPCS G2071, G2074 , G2075 , G2076 , G2077 , G2080
Monthly office-based treatment
HCPCS G2086, G2087, G2069
Scenario 6: Peer support service with a diagnosis of substance use disorder or drug overdose
Peer support services
HCPCS G0140, G0177, H0024, H0025, H0038, H0039, H0040, H0046, H2014, H2023, S9445,
T1012, T1016 ,T1017
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA)(cont.)
Scenario 7: Telehealth visit with a mental health provider or with a diagnosis of substance use disorder
or drug overdose, with the appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
02 Telehealth
10 Telehealth
Scenario 8: Community mental health center visit with appropriate place of service code with a
mental health provider or with a diagnosis of substance use disorder or drug overdose
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
53 Community mental health center
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA)(cont.)
Scenario 9: Non-residential substance abuse treatment facility visit with appropriate place of service
code with a mental health provider or with a diagnosis of substance use disorder or drug overdose
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
Scenario 10: Substance use disorder service, substance use services, or substance use disorder
counseling and surveillance
Substance use disorder services counseling and surveillance
CPT®/CPT II 99408, 99409
HCPCS G0396, G0397, G0443, H0001, H0005, H0006, H0007, H0015, H0016, H0022, H0028,
H0047, H0050, H2035, H2036, T1006, T1012
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z71.41, Z71.51
(Do not include lab claims from an independent lab (POS 81))
SNOMED 182969009, 20093000, 23915005, 266707007, 310653000, 370776007, 370854007,
385989002, 386449006, 386450006, 386451005, 414054004, 414056002,
414283008, 414501008, 415662004, 428211000124100, 445628007, 445662007,
450760003, 56876005, 61480009, 64297001, 67516001, 704182008, 707166002,
711008001, 713106006, 713107002, 713127001, 720174008, 720175009, 720176005,
720177001, 763104007, 763233002, 763302001, 772813001, 774090004,
774091000, 792901003, 792902005, 827094004, 865964007, 87106005,
719757009, 396150002, 38670004, 390857005, 417096006, 401266006, 4266003,
417699000, 431260004, 1254709001, 423416000
UBREV 0906, 0944, 0945
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA)(cont.)
Scenario 11: Behavioral health screening or assessment for substance use disorder or mental
health disorders
Behavioral health assessment
CPT®/CPT II 99408, 99409
HCPCS G0396, G0397, G0442, G2011, H0001, H0002, H0031, H0049
SNOMED 171208001, 314077000, 370854007, 391281002, 40823001, 410223002, 410229003,
414283008, 414501008, 415662004, 428211000124100, 439320000, 49474007,
58473000, 64792006, 703257008, 713106006, 713107002, 713127001, 713132000,
713137006, 89732002
Scenario 12: Telephone visit with a mental health provider or with a diagnosis of substance use
disorder or drug overdose
Telephone visits
CPT®/CPT II 98966, 98967, 98968, 99441, 99442, 99443, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012,
98013, 98014, 98015
SNOMED 185317003, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 401267002
Scenario 13: E-visit or virtual check-in with a mental health provider or with a diagnosis of substance
use disorder or drug overdose
Online assessment (e-visit/virtual check-in)
CPT®/CPT II 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981, 99421, 99422, 99423, 99444, 99457,
99458, 98016
HCPCS G0071, G2010, G2012, G2250 G2251 G2252
Scenario 14: Pharmacotherapy dispensing event or Medication treatment for alcohol or
opioid use disorder
Medication treatment
HCPCS G2069, G2070, G2072, G2073, H0020, H0033, J0570, J0571, J0572, J0573, J0574,
J0575, J0577, J0578, J2315, Q9991, Q9992, S0109
SNOMED 310653000
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
• Visits that result in an inpatient stay are not included
• Telehealth visits are acceptable to address the care opportunity
• Follow-up visit or medication dispensing event can occur on the same
day as the ED visit to address the care opportunity
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Follow-Up After Emergency Department Visit
for Substance Use (FUA)(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• This measure focuses on follow-up treatment pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
with a primary care provider or a substance disability status.
use specialist. – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
• See patients within 7 days and bill with a structured data exchange program, we
substance use diagnosis encourage you to include this demographic
• If a situation arises where a patient is unable to data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
be seen within 7 days, then they need to have an information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
appointment within 30 days of discharge will keep personally identifiable information
confidential and won't disclose any
• Encourage the use of telehealth appointments
information without your written consent.
when appropriate
• Available resources:
• The Mental Health Services Administration
supports following the Screening, Brief – Alcohol and drug use screening tools:
Intervention and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) providerexpress.com > Clinical Resources >
guideline at samhsa.gov/sbirt Behavioral Health Toolkits for
Medical Providers
• If you are not going to treat the patient
yourself, you will need to refer your patient – Patient education: liveandworkwell.com >
to a substance use specialist. To request Browse as a guest with company access code >
coordination of care, please call the number on Use access code "clinician" > Explore and Learn
the back of the patient’s health plan ID card or • SUD can be accepted as supplemental
search liveandworkwell.com. data. Please contact your UnitedHealthcare
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to representative to discuss clinical data
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social exchange opportunities.
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Testing for Pharyngitis (CWP)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of episodes for members age 3 years and older where the
member was diagnosed with pharyngitis, dispensed an antibiotic and
received a group A streptococcus (strep) test within 3 days prior to or 3 days after the diagnosis day
(7 days total). A higher rate indicates appropriate testing and treatment.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • Pharmacy data
• Medicare
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Group A strep test
CPT®/CPT II 87070, 87071, 87081, 87430, 87650, 87651, 87652, 87880
LOINC 11268-0, 17656-0, 17898-8, 18481-2, 31971-5, 49610-9, 5036-9, 60489-2, 626-2,
6557-3, 6558-1, 6559-9, 68954-7, 78012-2, 101300-2, 103627-6, 105062-4, 105063-
2
SNOMED 122121004, 122205003, 122303007
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Testing for Pharyngitis (CWP)
(cont.)
Medications
The following antibiotic medications, in conjunction with a strep test, will meet compliance
for this measure:
Drug category Medications
Aminopenicillins • Amoxicillin • Ampicillin
Beta-lactamase • Amoxicillin-clavulanate
inhibitors
First generation • Cefadroxil • Cephalexin
cephalosporins • Cefazolin
Folate antagonist • Trimethoprim
Lincomycin • Clindamycin
derivatives
Macrolides • Azithromycin
• Clarithromycin
• Erythromycin
Natural penicillins • Penicillin G potassium • Penicillin V potassium
• Penicillin G sodium • Penicillin G benzathine
Quinolones • Ciprofloxacin • Moxifloxacin
• Levofloxacin • Ofloxacin
Second • Cefaclor • Cefuroxime
generation • Cefprozil
cephalosporins
Sulfonamides • Sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim
Tetracyclines • Doxycycline • Tetracycline
• Minocycline
Third generation • Cefdinir • Cefpodoxime
cephalosporins • Cefixime • Ceftriaxone
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Testing for Pharyngitis (CWP)
(cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Medical record detail including, but not
limited to
• This measure addresses appropriate diagnosis • History and physical
and treatment for pharyngitis with a strep test • Lab reports
being completed 3 days before or 3
• Progress notes
days after the primary diagnosis and
prescribed antibiotics
• A pharyngitis diagnosis can be from an
outpatient, telephone, e-visit, virtual
check-in, observation or emergency
department visit between July 1 of the year
prior to the measurement year and June 30
of the measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Testing for Pharyngitis (CWP)
(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
see members with open care opportunities. needs of those we serve and decreasing health
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare inequities across the care continuum. This data
representative can help. can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
• Do not prescribe antibiotics until results of language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
Group A Strep test are received pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
• Always bill using the LOINC codes previously
listed with your strep test submission – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
– not local codes structured data exchange program, we
encourage you to include this demographic
• Always use a point of care rapid Group A
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
strep test or throat culture, when appropriate,
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
to confirm diagnosis of pharyngitis before
will keep personally identifiable information
prescribing an antibiotic
confidential and won't disclose any information
• Lab results can be accepted as supplemental
without your written consent.
data. Please contact your UnitedHealthcare
representative to discuss clinical data
exchange opportunities.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Avoidance of Antibiotic Treatment for
Acute Bronchitis/Bronchiolitis (AAB)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental data accepted
for required exclusions only
Definition
Percentage of episodes for members ages 3 months
and older with a diagnosis of acute bronchitis/bronchiolitis between July 1 of the year prior to the
measurement year through June 30 of the measurement year who were not dispensed an antibiotic
medication on or 3 days after the episode. A higher rate indicates appropriate treatment (not prescribed
an antibiotic).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Pharmacy data
• Medicare
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Avoidance of Antibiotic Treatment for Acute
Bronchitis/Bronchiolitis (AAB) (cont.)
Medications
To comply with this measure, the following antibiotics should not be dispensed upon diagnosis
of acute bronchitis:
Drug category Medications
Aminoglycosides • Amikacin • Streptomycin
• Gentamicin • Tobramycin
Aminopenicillins • Amoxicillin • Ampicillin
Beta-lactamase • Amoxicillin-clavulanate • Piperacillin-tazobactam
inhibitors • Ampicillin-sulbactam
First-generation • Cefadroxil • Cephalexin
cephalosporins • Cefazolin
Fourth- • Cefepime
generation
cephalosporins
Lincomycin • Clindamycin • Lincomycin
derivatives
Macrolides • Azithromycin
• Clarithromycin
• Erythromycin
Miscellaneous • Aztreonam • Linezolid
antibiotics • Chloramphenicol • Metronidazole
• Dalfopristin-quinupristin • Vancomycin
• Daptomycin
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Avoidance of Antibiotic Treatment for Acute
Bronchitis/Bronchiolitis (AAB) (cont.)
Drug category Medications
Natural penicillins • Penicillin G benzathine-procaine • Penicillin G sodium
• Penicillin G potassium • Penicillin V potassium
• Penicillin G procaine • Penicillin G benzathine
Penicillinase • Dicloxacillin • Oxacillin
resistant • Nafcillin
penicillins
Quinolones • Ciprofloxacin • Moxifloxacin
• Gemifloxacin • Ofloxacin
• Levofloxacin
Rifamycin • Rifampin
derivatives
Second- • Cefaclor • Cefprozil
generation • Cefotetan • Cefuroxime
cephalosporin
• Cefoxitin
Sulfonamides • Sulfadiazine • Sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim
Tetracyclines • Doxycycline • Tetracycline
• Minocycline
Third-generation • Cefdinir • Cefpodoxime
cephalosporins • Cefixime • Ceftazidime
• Cefotaxime • Ceftriaxone
Urinary • Fosfomycin • Nitrofurantoin macrocrystals-
anti-infectives • Nitrofurantoin monohydrate
• Trimethoprim
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Avoidance of Antibiotic Treatment for Acute
Bronchitis/Bronchiolitis (AAB) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
see members with open care opportunities. needs of those we serve and decreasing health
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare inequities across the care continuum. This data
representative can help. can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
• An episode for bronchitis/bronchiolitis will language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
not count toward the measure denominator pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
if the member was diagnosed with 1 of these disability status.
conditions within 12 months of the event: – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
– Chronic obstructive pulmonary structured data exchange program, we
disease (COPD) encourage you to include this demographic
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
– Disorders of the immune system
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
– Emphysema
will keep personally identifiable information
– HIV
confidential and won't disclose any information
– Malignant neoplasms without your written consent.
– Other malignant neoplasms of the skin • Supplemental data may be used for
• An episode for bronchitis/bronchiolitis will not required exclusions
count toward the measure denominator if the
member was diagnosed with either pharyngitis
or a competing diagnosis on or 3 days after the
episode date
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Treatment for Upper
Respiratory Infection (URI)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure Yes!
Supplemental data accepted
for required exclusions only
Definition
Percentage of episodes for members 3 months and older who were given a diagnosis of upper
respiratory infection (URI) between July 1 of the year prior to the measurement year through
June 30 of the measurement year and were not dispensed an antibiotic prescription on or 3 days
after the diagnosis day (4 days total). A higher rate indicates appropriate treatment
(not prescribed an antibiotic).
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Pharmacy data
• Medicare
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Treatment for Upper
Respiratory Infection (URI) (cont.)
Medications
The following antibiotic medications should not be prescribed for an upper respiratory infection:
Drug category Medications
Aminoglycosides • Amikacin
• Gentamicin
• Streptomycin
• Tobramycin
Aminopenicillins • Amoxicillin
• Ampicillin
Beta-lactamase • Amoxicillin-clavulanate
inhibitors • Ampicillin-sulbactam
• Piperacillin-tazobactam
First generation • Cefadroxil • Cephalexin
cephalosporins • Cefazolin
Fourth generation • Cefepime
cephalosporins
Lincomycin • Clindamycin
derivatives • Lincomycin
Macrolides • Azithromycin
• Clarithromycin
• Erythromycin
Miscellaneous • Aztreonam • Linezolid
antibiotics • Chloramphenicol • Metronidazole
• Dalfopristin-quinupristin • Vancomycin
• Daptomycin
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Treatment for Upper
Respiratory Infection (URI) (cont.)
Drug category Medications
Natural penicillins • Penicillin G benzathine-procaine • Penicillin G sodium
• Penicillin G potassium • Penicillin V potassium
• Penicillin G procaine • Penicillin G benzathine
Penicillinase- • Dicloxacillin
resistant • Nafcillin
penicillins
• Oxacillin
Quinolones • Ciprofloxacin • Moxifloxacin
• Gemifloxacin • Ofloxacin
• Levofloxacin
Rifamycin • Rifampin
derivatives
Second • Cefaclor • Cefprozil
generation • Cefotetan • Cefuroxime
cephalosporins
• Cefoxitin
Sulfonamides • Sulfadiazine
• Sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim
Tetracyclines • Doxycycline • Tetracycline
• Minocycline
Third generation • Cefdinir • Cefpodoxime
cephalosporins • Cefixime • Ceftazidime
• Cefotaxime • Ceftriaxone
Urinary • Fosfomycin • Trimethoprim
anti-infectives • Nitrofurantoin
• Nitrofurantoin macrocrystals-
monohydrate
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Treatment for Upper
Respiratory Infection (URI) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Medical record detail including, but not
limited to
• This measure addresses appropriate diagnosis • History and physical
and treatment for upper respiratory infections • Progress notes
without prescribing an antibiotic
• An upper respiratory infection diagnosis can
be from an outpatient, telephone, e-visit,
virtual check-in, observation or emergency
department visit between July 1 of the year
prior to the measurement year and June 30 of
the measurement year
• Members who have a competing diagnosis of
pharyngitis on or 3 days after the diagnosis of
upper respiratory infection should be excluded
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Appropriate Treatment for Upper
Respiratory Infection (URI) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to structured data exchange program, we
see members with open care opportunities. encourage you to include this demographic
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
representative can help. information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
• Details on the appropriate treatment of URIs are will keep personally identifiable information
available at cdc.gov confidential and won't disclose any information
without your written consent.
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social • Supplemental data may be used for
needs of those we serve and decreasing health required exclusions
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC)
New for 2025
Added
• Muscular reactions to statins is now a required exclusion
Definition
• Percentage of males ages 21 -75 and females ages 40 -75 during the measurement year who
were identified as having clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and met the
following criteria:
• Received statin therapy: Members who were dispensed at least 1 high- or moderate-intensity statin
medication during the measurement year
• Statin adherence 80%: Members who remained on a high- or moderate-intensity statin medication
for at least 80% of the treatment period
- Note: This adherence component does NOT apply to CMS Star Ratings for Medicare members; only
the “Received statin therapy” component is required to be compliant for the SPC Star Measure
SPC inclusion (event, diagnosis or both)
Event Time frame of event or diagnosis
• Myocardial infraction (MI)
• Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG)
Year prior to the measurement year
• Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
• Other revascularization
Diagnosis Time frame of event or diagnosis
Ischemic vascular disease (IVD) Both measurement year and year prior to the
measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) (cont.)
Important note: The treatment period is defined as the earliest prescription dispensing date in the
measurement year for any statin medication of at least moderate intensity through the last day of the
measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Star Ratings – Only Administrative
• Medicaid includes the sub-measure for • Claim/encounter data
“Received Statin Therapy”
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
• NCQA Accreditation
• NCQA Health Plan Ratings
Medications
To comply with this measure, 1 of the following medications must have been dispensed:
Drug category Medications
High-intensity • Atorvastatin 40–80 mg • Simvastatin 80 mg
statin therapy • Amlodipine-atorvastatin 40–80 mg • Ezetimibe-simvastatin 80 mg
• Rosuvastatin 20–40 mg
Moderate- • Atorvastatin 10–20 mg • Pravastatin 40–80 mg
intensity statin • Amlodipine-atorvastatin 10–20 mg • Lovastatin 40-60 mg
therapy
• Rosuvastatin 5–10 mg • Fluvastatin 40–80 mg
• Simvastatin 20–40 mg • Pitavastatin 1–4 mg
• Ezetimibe-simvastatin 20–40 mg
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Members receiving palliative care: Z51.5
• Myalgia, myositis, myopathy or rhabdomyolysis diagnosis
: G72.0, G72.2, G72.9, M60.80, M60.811, M60.812, M60.819,
M60.821, M60.822, M60.829, M60.831, M60.832, M60.839,
M60.841, M60.842, M60.849, M60.851, M60.852, M60.859,
M60.861, M60.862, M60.869, M60.871, M60.872, M60.879,
M60.88, M60.89, M60.9, M62.82, M79.10, M79.11,
M79.12, M79.18
• Cirrhosis: K70.30, K70.31, K71.7, K74.3, K74.4, K74.5, K74.60, Any time during the measurement
K74.69, P78.81 year or the year prior to the
• Dispensed at least 1 prescription for clomiphene measurement year
• End-stage renal disease (ESRD): N18.5, N18.6, Z99.2
• Dialysis: 90935, 90937, 90945, 90947, 90997, 90999, 99512
• Members with a diagnosis of pregnancy: O00.101, O99.019,
O99.210, O99.340, O99.810, O99.820, Z33.1, Z34.00, Z34.83,
Z34.90, Z34.91, Z34.92, Z34.93
• In vitro fertilization
• Myalgia or rhabdomyolysis caused by a statin: Any time during the member's
16524291000119105, 16524331000119104, history through Dec. 31 of the
16462851000119106, 787206005 measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s) (cont.)
Exclusion Time frame
Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the • Frailty diagnoses must be in
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. Members the measurement year and on
must meet both frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify as different dates of service
an exclusion:
• Advanced illness diagnosis
• Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
must be in the measurement
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims
year or year prior to the
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent lab
measurement year
(POS 81)
•Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
– At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do not
include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis was from
an independent lab (POS 81).
– Dispensed dementia medication donepezil,
donepezil-memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine
or memantine
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
• Living long term in an institution*
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) (cont.)
Unstructured data for SPC measure
Practice Assist allows practices to upload unstructured data to close measure gaps for the Statin
Therapy for Patients With Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) measure.
Upload to Practice Assist
1. Access Practice Assist by signing in to the UnitedHealthcare Provider Portal
2. Go to Medication Adherence in care opportunities
3. Find the patient and click Manage Patient
4. Go to the Please upload supporting documentation field and upload the document
5. Click Select Care Opportunities and check Statin Therapy for Patients with Cardiovascular Disease
6. Save and submit
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close the “Received Statin
Therapy” care opportunity for UnitedHealthcare Medicare
Advantage Plan members
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • If member has intolerance or side
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often. effects such as myalgias, if clinically
Look in the Member Adherence tab to find – A different statin that is hydrophilic (e.g.,
members with open care opportunities. rosuvastatin or pravastatin)
• Log on to Practice Assist to review members – A lower dose such as a moderate-
with open care opportunities intensity dose statin than
previously tried
– Select Medication Adherence to view
– Reducing the frequency
your patient list
• For members who meet exclusion criteria, a
– Members without a high- or
claim using appropriate ICD-10 code must
moderate-intensity statin fill this year
be submitted ANNUALLY if applicable
will be marked with a “Gap” under the
SPC measure • Only statins satisfy the measure; other
cholesterol medications such as ezetimibe
• Importance of taking a statin: American
or PCSK9 inhibitors do not satisfy
Heart Association (AHA) and American
the measure
College of Cardiology (ACC) suggest people
with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular • Consider extended day fills (e.g., 90- or 100-
disease (ASCVD) take a high-intensity day supply) or send to home delivery
statin therapy or maximally tolerated statin • Consider prescribing a high- or
therapy.1 Statins can reduce the risk of heart moderate-intensity statin, as appropriate.
attack and stroke, even in patients who do If you determine medication is appropriate,
not have high cholesterol. please send a prescription to the member’s
preferred pharmacy.*
Meta-analysis with 5 randomized controlled
– To close the SPC care opportunity, a
trials have shown that high-intensity statins
member must use their Part D insurance
reduced major vascular events by 15%
card to fill 1 of the statins or statin
compared with moderate-intensity statin
combinations in the strengths/doses
therapy in patients with clinical ascvd.2
listed in the “Medications” table on
According to AHA/ACC, the larger the LDL-C
the previous page by the end of the
reduction, the larger proportional reduction
measurement year.
in major vascular events.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With
Cardiovascular Disease (SPC) (cont.)
– Prescriptions filled through cash claims, – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
discount programs (such as GoodRx), and structured data exchange program, we
medication samples will not close encourage you to include this demographic
the measure. data with any structured data file or
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to CCD. Your information is confidential.
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social UnitedHealthcare will keep personally
needs of those we serve and decreasing health identifiable information confidential and
inequities across the care continuum. This data won't disclose any information without your
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, written consent.
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, • Upload SPC Supplemental data for exclusions
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and into Practice Assist
disability status.
References:
1 Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, Braun LT, de Ferranti S, Faiella-Tommasino J, Forman DE, Goldberg R, Heidenreich PA,
Hlatky MA, Jones DW, Lloyd-Jones D, Lopez-Pajares N, Ndumele CE, Orringer CE, Peralta CA, Saseen JJ, Smith SC Jr, Sperling L, Virani SS, Yeboah J. 2018
AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol: A Report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2019 Jun 25;73(24):e285-e350. doi: 10.1016/j.
jacc.2018.11.003. Epub 2018 Nov 10. Erratum in: J Am Coll Cardiol. 2019 Jun 25;73(24):3237-3241. PMID: 30423393.
2 Baigent C, Blackwell L, Emberson J, et al. Efficacy and safety of more intensive lowering of LDL cholesterol: a meta-analysis of data from 170 000 participants
in 26 randomised trials. Lancet. 2010; 376:1670 -81.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With Diabetes
(SPD)
New for 2025
Added
• Muscular reactions to statins is now a required exclusion
Definition
Percentage of members ages 40–75 during the measurement year with diabetes who do not have
clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) who met the following criteria:
• Received statin therapy: Members who were dispensed at least 1 statin medication of any intensity
during the measurement year
• Statin adherence 80%: Members who remained on a statin medication of any intensity for at l
east 80% of the treatment period
Important note:
The treatment period is defined as the earliest prescription dispensing date in
the measurement year for any statin medication at any intensity through the last day of the
measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
*Please refer to SUPD for the Part D measure.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With Diabetes
(SPD) (cont.)
Medications
To comply with this measure, one of the following medications must have been dispensed:
Drug category Medications
High-intensity • Amlodipine-atorvastatin 40–80 mg* • Rosuvastatin 20–40 mg
statin therapy • Atorvastatin 40–80 mg • Simvastatin 80 mg
• Ezetimibe-simvastatin 80 mg**
Moderate- • Amlodipine-atorvastatin 10–20 mg* • Pitavastatin 1–4 mg
intensity statin • Atorvastatin 10–20 mg • Pravastatin 40–80 mg
therapy
• Ezetimibe-simvastatin 20–40 mg** • Rosuvastatin 5–10 mg
• Fluvastatin 40–80 mg • Simvastatin 20–40 mg
• Lovastatin 40-60 mg
Low-intensity • Ezetimibe-simvastatin 10 mg** • Pravastatin 10–20 mg
statin therapy • Fluvastatin 20 mg • Simvastatin 5–10 mg
• Lovastatin 10–20 mg
*The 10–80 mg is referring to atorvastatin strength.
**The 10–80 mg is referring to simvastatin strength.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With Diabetes
(SPD) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Members receiving palliative care
• Myalgia, myositis, myopathy or rhabdomyolysis diagnosis
• Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the
measurement year who are either:
– Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
– Living long term in an institution*
Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the • Frailty diagnoses must be in
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. Members the measurement year and on
must meet both frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify different dates of service
as an exclusion:
• Advanced illness diagnosis
• Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
must be in the measurement
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims
year or year prior to the
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent lab
measurement year
(POS 81).
• Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
– At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates of
service during the measurement year or year prior. Do
not include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis was
from an independent lab (POS 81).
– Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil, Donepezil-
Memantine, Galantamine, Rivastigmine or Memantine
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With Diabetes
(SPD) (cont.)
Exclusion Time frame
• Cirrhosis: K70.30, K70.31, K71.7, K74.3, K74.4, K74.5, K74.60, Any time during the measurement
K74.69, P78.81 year or the year prior to the
• Dispensed at least 1 prescription for clomiphene measurement year
• End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD): N18.5, N18.6, Z99.2
• Dialysis
• Members with a diagnosis of pregnancy
• In vitro fertilization
• Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) Any time during the year prior to
• Myocardial infarction the measurement year
• Other revascularization procedure
• Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
A diagnosis of ischemic vascular disease (IVD) via Any time during the year prior to
outpatient visit, telephone visit, e-visit or virtual check-in, acute the measurement year and the
inpatient encounter without telehealth modifier or measurement year (must be in
acute inpatient discharge both years)
Myalgia or rhabdomyolysis caused by a statin Any time during the member's
history through Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Statin Therapy for Patients With Diabetes
(SPD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to • Consider prescribing a high- or
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social moderate-intensity statin, as appropriate.
needs of those we serve and decreasing health If you determine medication is appropriate,
inequities across the care continuum. This data please send a prescription to the member’s
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, preferred pharmacy.*
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, – To address the SPD care opportunity, a
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and member must use their insurance card to fill
disability status. 1 of the statins or statin combinations in the
– A s part of UnitedHealthcare's clinical strengths/doses listed in the “Medications”
structured data exchange program, we table on the previous page by the end of the
encourage you to include this demographic measurement year
data with any structured data file or
CCD. Your information is confidential.
UnitedHealthcare will keep personally
identifiable information confidential and
won't disclose any information without your
written consent.
*Member may use any pharmacy in the network, but may not receive preferred retail pharmacy pricing. Pharmacies in
the Preferred Retail Pharmacy Network may not be available in all areas. Co-pays apply after deductible.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids at High Dosage (HDO)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure. Yes!
Supplemental data accepted
for required exclusions only
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 and older receiving prescription opioids for ≥ 15 days during the
measurement year at a high dosage (average milligram morphine equivalent [MME] dose ≥ 90 mg).
A lower rate indicates a better score for this measure.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting Administrative
• Medicaid • Claim/encounter
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
Medications
To be included in this measure, a member must have been prescribed 1 of the following Opioid
medications at an average MME ≥ 90 mg for ≥ 15 days:
Opioid medications
• Benzhydrocodone • Fentanyl transdermal film/ • Morphine
• Butorphanol patch • Opium
• Codeine • Fentanyl nasal spray • Oxycodone
• Dihydrocodeine • Hydrocodone • Oxymorphone
• Fentanyl oral spray • Hydromorphone • Pentazocine
• Fentanyl buccal or sublingual • Levorphanol • Tapentadol
tablet, transmucosal lozenge • Meperidine • Tramadol
• Methadone
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids at High Dosage (HDO) (cont.)
These medications are not included as dispensing events for this measure:
• Cough and cold products with opioids
• Injectables
• Ionsys®
– Fentanyl transdermal patch used in inpatient settings only
• Methadone for the treatment of opioid use disorder
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the measurement year
• Members who died
• Cancer
• Sickle cell disease
• Members receiving palliative care
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids at High Dosage (HDO) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• This measure focuses on using low dosage o U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
for opioids (HHS) Prevent Opioid Abuse and Addiction
• For treatment of acute pain using opioids, the available at hhs.gov/opioids > Prevention
guidelines recommend immediate-release – Treatment
opioids be used at a dosage as low as possible o Substance Abuse and Mental Health
and for as few days as needed Services Administration (SAMHSA) medication
• For treatment of chronic pain, guidelines assisted treatment for opioid use disorder
recommend clinicians consider non- (MOUD) available at samhsa.gov > Programs &
pharmacologic and non-opioid therapies first, Campaigns > Medication-Assisted Treatment
and only in cases where the benefits outweigh o National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA)
the risks, initiation of opioid therapy Effective Treatments for Opioid Addiction
• UnitedHealthcare is committed to working with available at drugabuse.gov > Drugs of Abuse >
care providers to help: Opioids > Effective Treatments for
– Prevent opioid misuse and addiction Opioid Addiction
– Treat those who are addicted o HHS Treatment for Opioid Use Disorder
available at hhs.gov/opioids > Treatment
– Support long-term recovery
o American Society of Addiction Medicine
For more information about our programs to
(ASAM) Educational Resources available at
help prevent opioid overuse, please visit
asam.org > Education > Educational Resources
UHCprovider.com > Resource Library > Drug Lists
and Pharmacy > Opioid Programs and Resources. – Recovery
• Information to help you stay informed about o In-network MOUD care provider search for
the latest opioid research and guidelines is also UnitedHealthcare plan members available at
available at cdc.gov, hhs.gov or your state’s provider.liveandworkwell.com
public health department website. Here are a few – To start a search, enter ZIP code > Select an Area
suggestions to get you started: of Expertise > Substance Use Disorder > Search
– Prevention
– Harm reduction
o Centers for Disease Control and Prevention o Harm Reduction Coalition Prescribe Naloxone!
(CDC) Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for available at harmreduction.org > Issues >
Chronic Pain available at cdc.gov > CDC A - Z Overdose Prevention > Prescribe Naloxone!
INDEX > D > Drug Recent Resources
Overdose (OD) > Healthcare Providers > CDC’s
opioid prescribing guideline for chronic pain
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids at High Dosage (HDO) (cont.)
o SAMHSA Opioid Overdose Preventive Toolkit – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
available at samhsa.gov > Publications > structured data exchange program,
Substances > Opioids or Opiates > Opioid we encourage you to include this
Overdose Prevention Toolkit (SMA16-4742) demographic data with any structured
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to data file or CCD. Your information is
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social confidential. UnitedHealthcare will keep
needs of those we serve and decreasing health personally identifiable information
inequities across the care continuum. This data confidential and won't disclose any
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, information without your written consent.
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and d
isability status.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids From Multiple Providers (UOP)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental data accepted
Definition for required exclusions only
Percentage of members ages 18 and older receiving
prescription opioids for ≥ 15 days during the
measurement year who received opioids from multiple providers.
Three rates are reported:
1. Multiple prescribers: Percentage of members receiving prescriptions for opioids from 4 or more
different prescribers during the measurement year
2. Multiple pharmacies: Percentage of members receiving prescriptions for opioids from 4 or more
different pharmacies during the measurement year
3. M ultiple prescribers and multiple pharmacies: Percentage of members receiving prescriptions
for opioids from 4 or more different prescribers and 4 or more different pharmacies during the
measurement year
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting Administrative
• Medicaid • Claim/encounter
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
Medications
To be included in this measure, a member must have met both of the following criteria in the
measurement year:
• 2 or more dispensing events on different dates of service for the following Opioid medications, and
• ≥ 15 days covered by an opioid prescription
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids From Multiple Providers (UOP) (cont.)
Opioid medications
• Benzhydrocodone • Codeine • Levorphanol • Oxycodone
• Buprenorphine • Dihydrocodeine • Meperidine • Oxymorphone
(transdermal patch • Fentanyl • Methadone • Pentazocine
and buccal film)
• Hydrocodone • Morphine • Tapentadol
• Butorphanol
• Hydromorphone • Opium • Tramadol
These medications are not included as dispensing events for this measure:
• Cough and cold products with opioids
• Injectables
• Ionsys®
– Fentanyl transdermal patch used in inpatient settings only
• Methadone for the treatment of opioid use disorder
• Single-agent and combination buprenorphine products used as part of medication assisted
treatment of opioid use disorder
– Buprenorphine sublingual tablets
– Buprenorphine subcutaneous implant
– Buprenorphine/naloxone combination products
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids From Multiple Providers (UOP) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• This measure focuses on taking caution medication assisted treatment for opioid
with patients using multiple pharmacies use disorder (MOUD) (MAT) available at
and/or prescribers samhsa.gov > Programs & Campaigns >
• Evidence suggests people who see multiple Medication-Assisted Treatment
prescribers and use multiple pharmacies are at o National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA)
higher risk of overdose Effective Treatments for Opioid Addiction
• UnitedHealthcare is committed to working with available at drugabuse.gov > Drugs of Abuse
care providers to help: > Opioids >Effective Treatments for Opioid
– Prevent opioid misuse and addiction Addiction
– Treat those who are addicted o HHS Treatment for Opioid Use Disorder
– Support long-term recovery available at hhs.gov/opioids > Treatment
For more information about our programs to o American Society of Addiction Medicine
help prevent opioid overuse, please visit (ASAM) Educational Resources available at
UHCprovider.com > Resource Library > Drug Lists asam.org > Education > Educational Resources
and Pharmacy > Opioid Programs and Resources. – Recovery
• Information to help you stay informed about o In-network MOUD care provider search for
the latest opioid research and guidelines is also UnitedHealthcare plan members available at
available at cdc.gov, hhs.gov or your state’s provider.liveandworkwell.com
public health department website. Here are a few – To start a search, enter ZIP code > Select
suggestions to get you started: an Area of Expertise> Substance Use
– Prevention Disorder > Search
o Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – Harm reduction
(CDC) Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for o Harm Reduction Coalition Prescribe Naloxone!
Chronic Pain available at cdc.gov > CDC A - Z available at harmreduction.org > Issues >
INDEX > D > Drug Overdose (OD) > Healthcare Overdose Prevention > Prescribe Naloxone!
Providers > CDC’s opioid prescribing guideline Recent Resources
for chronic pain o SAMHSA Opioid Overdose Preventive Toolkit
o U.S. Department of Health & Human Services available at samhsa.gov > Publications >
(HHS) Prevent Opioid Abuse and Addiction Substances > Opioids or Opiates > Opioid
available at hhs.gov/opioids > Prevention Overdose Prevention Toolkit (SMA16-4742)
– Treatment
o Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA) Medication-Assisted
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of Opioids From Multiple Providers (UOP) (cont.)
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to o SAMHSA Opioid Overdose Preventive Toolkit
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social available at: samhsa.gov > Publications >
needs of those we serve and decreasing health Substances > Opioids or Opiates > Opioid
inequities across the care continuum. This data Overdose Prevention Toolkit (SMA16-4742)
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and needs of those we serve and decreasing health
disability status. inequities across the care continuum.
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical This data can include, but is not limited to, race,
structured data exchange program, we ethnicity, language, sexual orientation, gender
encourage you to include this demographic identity, pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your disability status.
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
will keep personally identifiable information structured data exchange program, we
confidential and won't disclose any encourage you to include this demographic
information without your written consent. data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
Harm Reduction information is confidential.UnitedHealthcare
o Harm Reduction Coalition Prescribe will keep personally identifiable information
Naloxone! available at: harmreduction.org confidential and won't disclose any
> Issues > Overdose Prevention > Prescribe information without your written consent.
Naloxone! Recent Resources
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Pharmacotherapy for Opioid Use Disorder (POD)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure Yes!
Supplemental data accepted
Definition for required exclusions only
Percentage of new opioid use disorder pharmacotherapy
events that lasted at least 180 days among members 16
years of age and older with a diagnosis of opioid use disorder and a new
opioid use disorder pharmacotherapy event.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
Medications
To be included in this measure, a member must have been dispensed one of the following
Opioid medications:
Drug category Medications
Antagonist • Naltrexone (oral or injectable)
Partial agonist • Buprenorphine (sublingual tablet, injection, implant)
Partial agonist • Buprenorphine/naloxone (sublingual tablet, buccal film, sublingual film)
Methadone is not included on the Medication lists for this measure because a pharmacy claim for
methadone indicates treatment for pain and not opioid use disorder.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Pharmacotherapy for Opioid Use Disorder (POD)
(cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• This measure focuses on treatment for INDEX > D > Drug Overdose (OD) > Healthcare
members with opioid use disorder Providers > CDC’s opioid prescribing guideline
• Evidence suggests that people who see multiple for chronic pain
prescribers and use multiple pharmacies are at o U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
higher risk of overdose (HHS) Prevent Opioid Abuse and Addiction
• UnitedHealthcare is committed to working available at hhs.gov/opioids > Prevention
with care providers to help: – Treatment
– Prevent opioid misuse and addiction o Substance Abuse and Mental Health
– Treat those who are addicted Services Administration (SAMHSA)
medication assisted treatment for
– Support long-term recovery
opioid use disorder (MOUD) available at
For more information about our programs to
samhsa.gov >Programs & Campaigns >
help prevent opioid overuse, please visit
Medication-Assisted Treatment
UHCprovider.com > Menu > Resource Library >
o National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA)
Drug Lists and Pharmacy > Opioid Programs
Effective Treatments for Opioid Addiction
and Resources.
available at drugabuse.gov > Drugs of Abuse >
• Information to help you stay informed about
Opioids > Effective Treatments for
the latest opioid research and guidelines is also
Opioid Addiction
available at cdc.gov, hhs.gov or your state’s
o HHS Treatment for Opioid Use Disorder
public health department website. Here are a
available at hhs.gov/opioids > Treatment
few suggestions to get you started:
o American Society of Addiction Medicine
– Prevention
(ASAM) Educational Resources available
o Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
at: asam.org > Education > Educational
(CDC) Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for
Resources
Chronic Pain available at cdc.gov > CDC A - Z
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Pharmacotherapy for Opioid Use Disorder (POD)
(cont.)
– Recovery needs of those we serve and decreasing health
o In-network MOUD care provider search for inequities across the care continuum. This data
UnitedHealthcare plan members available at can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
provider.liveandworkwell.com language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
– To start a search, enter ZIP code > Select
disability status.
an Area of Expertise > Substance Use
Disorder > Search – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
structured data exchange program, we
– Harm reduction
encourage you to include this demographic
o Harm Reduction Coalition Prescribe Naloxone!
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
available at harmreduction.org > Issues >
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
Overdose Prevention > Prescribe Naloxone!
will keep personally identifiable information
Recent Resources
confidential and won't disclose any information
o SAMHSA Opioid Overdose Preventive Toolkit
without your written consent.
available at samhsa.gov > Publications >
Substances > Opioids or Opiates > Opioid
Overdose Prevention Toolkit (SMA16-4742)
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Risk of Continued Opioid Use (COU)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental data accepted
for required exclusions only
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 and older with a new episode of opioid use that puts them at
risk for continued use.
Two rates are reported:
• The percentage of members with at least 15 days of prescription opioids in a 30-day period
• The Percentage of members with at least 31 days of prescription opioids in a 62-day period
A lower rate indicates a better score for this measure.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting Administrative
• Medicaid • Claim/encounter
• Medicare • Pharmacy data
Medications
To be included in this measure, a member must have been dispensed one of the following
Opioid medications:
Opioid medications
• Benzhydrocodone • Codeine • Levorphanol • Oxycodone
• Buprenorphine • Dihydrocodeine • Meperidine • Oxymorphone
(transdermal patch • Fentanyl • Methadone • Pentazocine
and buccal film)
• Hydrocodone • Morphine • Tapentadol
• Butorphanol
• Hydromorphone • Opium • Tramadol
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Risk of Continued Opioid Use (COU) (cont.)
These medications are not included as dispensing events for this measure:
• Cough and cold products with opioids
• Injectables
• Ionsys®
– Fentanyl transdermal patch used in inpatient settings only
• Methadone for the treatment of opioid use disorder
• Single-agent and combination buprenorphine products used as part of medication
assisted treatment of opioid use disorder
– Buprenorphine sublingual tablets
– Buprenorphine subcutaneous implant
– Buprenorphine/naloxone combination products
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the measurement year
• Members who died
• Cancer Any time during the 12 months prior
• Sickle cell disease to the index prescription start date
• Palliative care through 61 days after
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Risk of Continued Opioid Use (COU) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• This measure focuses on taking caution with o Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
patients with a new prescription for opioids Administration (SAMHSA) medication
• Evidence suggests that people who see multiple assisted treatment for opioid use disorder
prescribers and use multiple pharmacies are at (MOUD) available at samhsa.gov > Programs &
higher risk of overdose Campaigns > Medication-Assisted Treatment
• UnitedHealthcare is committed to working with o National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA)
care providers to help: Effective Treatments for Opioid Addiction
– Prevent opioid misuse and addiction available at drugabuse.gov > Drugs of Abuse
– Treat those who are addicted > Opioids > Effective Treatments for Opioid
– Support long-term recovery Addiction
For more information about our programs to o HHS Treatment for Opioid Use Disorder
help prevent opioid overuse, please visit available at hhs.gov/opioids > Treatment
UHCprovider.com > Menu > Resource Library > o American Society of Addiction Medicine
Drug Lists and Pharmacy > Opioid Programs (ASAM) Educational Resources available at:
and Resources. asam.org > Education > Educational Resources
• Information to help you stay informed about – Recovery
the latest opioid research and guidelines is also o In-network MOUD care provider search for
available at cdc.gov, hhs.gov or your state’s UnitedHealthcare plan members available at
public health department website. Here are a provider.liveandworkwell.com
few suggestions to get you started: – To start a search, enter ZIP code > Select an
– Prevention Area of Expertise > Substance Use
o Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Disorder > Search
(CDC) Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for – Harm reduction
Chronic Pain available at: cdc.gov > CDC A - Z o Harm Reduction Coalition Prescribe Naloxone!
INDEX > D > Drug Overdose (OD) > Healthcare available at harmreduction.org > Issues >
Providers > CDC’s opioid prescribing guideline Overdose Prevention > Prescribe Naloxone!
for chronic pain Recent Resources
o U.S. Department of Health & Human Services o SAMHSA Opioid Overdose Preventive Toolkit
(HHS) Prevent Opioid Abuse and Addiction available at samhsa.gov > Publications >
available at hhs.gov/opioids > Prevention Substances > Opioids or Opiates > Opioid
– Treatment Overdose Prevention Toolkit (SMA16-4742)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Risk of Continued Opioid Use (COU) (cont.)
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social structured data exchange program, we
needs of those we serve and decreasing health encourage you to include this demographic
inequities across the care continuum. This data data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, will keep personally identifiable information
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and confidential and won't disclose any information
disability status. without your written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Child and Adolescent Well-care visits (WCV)
New for 2025
Updated Yes!
• Telehealth well visits were removed from gap closure criteria Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 3-21 years who had one or more
comprehensive Well-care visits with a primary care provider or OB-GYN during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • Select Medicaid state • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Well-care visits
CPT®/CPT II 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99391, 99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99461
HCPCS G0438, G0439, S0302, S0610, S0612, S0613
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z00.00, Z00.01, Z00.110, Z00.111, Z00.121, Z00.129, Z00.2, Z00.3, Z01.411, Z01.419,
Z02.5, Z02.84, Z76.1, Z76.2
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Child and Adolescent Well-care visits (WCV)
(cont.)
Well-care visits
SNOMED 103740001, 170099002, 170107008, 170114005, 170123008, 170132005,
170141000, 170150003, 170159002, 170168000, 170250008, 170254004,
170263002, 170272005, 170281004, 170290006, 170300004, 170309003,
171387006, 171394009, 171395005, 171409007, 171410002, 171416008, 171417004,
243788004, 268563000, 270356004, 401140000, 410620009, 410621008,
410622001, 410623006, 410624000, 410625004, 410626003, 410627007,
410628002, 410629005, 410630000, 410631001, 410632008, 410633003,
410634009, 410635005, 410636006, 410637002, 410638007, 410639004,
410640002, 410641003, 410642005, 410643000, 410644006, 410645007,
410646008, 410647004, 410648009, 410649001, 410650001, 442162000,
783260003, 1269517007, 1269518002, 444971000124105, 446301000124108,
446381000124104, 669251000168104, 669261000168102, 669271000168108,
669281000168106
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
• The well-child visit must be done by a primary care provider, but it doesn’t have to be with the
member’s assigned primary care provider
• School-based health clinic visits count for this measure if they’re for a well-care exam and the
physician completing the exam is a primary care provider
• A sports physical does not qualify for a well-care visit because it does not include required
components for a well-care exam such as the health history, preventive care, behavioral and
development screenings
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Child and Adolescent Well-care visits (WCV)
(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to will keep personally identifiable information
see members with open care opportunities. confidential and won't disclose any information
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare without your written consent.
representative can help. • The America’s Health Rankings® 2024 Health
• If provider is seeing a patient for Evaluation and of Women and Children Report stated that
Management (E/M) services and all well-child visit mortality increased by 14% in children ages
components are completed, attach modifier 1-19 between 2017-2019 and 2020-2022, with
25 or 59 to the well-child procedure code so an increase of 7% among children ages 5-14. In
it’s reviewed as a significant, separately addition, mental health conditions increased by
identifiable procedure 12% in children ages 3-17 between 2020-2021
– Modifier 25 is used to indicate a significant and 2022-2023. Early identification of risk factors
and separately identifiable evaluation and and health concerns are key in promoting better
management (E/M) service by the same health outcomes for this population. Based on
physician on the same day another procedure internal analytic a significant drop in well-child
or service was performed visits after age 3 has been identified. Below are
– Modifier 59 is used to indicate that 2 or more some strategies that may be implemented to
procedures were performed at the same visit, impact the well-child visit rate and provide an
but to different sites on the body opportunity to identify and address any concerns.
• Helpful resources about the components of care - Partner with your UnitedHealthcare
are available at brightfutures.aap.org representative to identify a targeted population
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to for outreach such as those children who had
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social a well-child visit in the previous year but are
needs of those we serve and decreasing health overdue this year
inequities across the care continuum. This data - Use your Patient Care Opportunity Report
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, (PCOR) on a quarterly basis to identify the
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, children who need a well-child visit and cross
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and reference with children who do not already
disability status. have appointments and perform outreach to
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical get those children scheduled
structured data exchange program, we
encourage you to include this demographic
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Child and Adolescent Well-care visits (WCV)
(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
- Offer options such as extended hours in the - Partner with your UnitedHealthcare
evening, weekend appointments, walk-in representative to see if there are options to assist
clinics or block scheduling for families to help those families who frequently have to cancel due
accommodate working parents/caregivers to transportation issues or other barriers to care,
and school hours to alleviate the burden of social determinants of health, etc.
managing multiple appointments and
competing time commitments
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Lead Screening in Children (LSC)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
Data Accepted
Definition
Percentage of children age 2 who had 1 or more capillary or venous lead
blood test for lead poisoning on or by their second birthday.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicaid • Select Medicaid State Administrative
reporting • Claim/encounter data
Hybrid
• Claim/encounter data
• Medical record documentation
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Lead test
CPT®/CPT II 83655
LOINC 10368-9, 10912-4, 14807-2, 17052-2, 25459-9, 27129-6, 32325-3, 5674-7, 77307-7
SNOMED 8655006, 35833009
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Lead Screening for Children (LSC) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Medical record detail including, but not
limited to
Date of service and result must be documented • History and physical
with the notation of the lead screening test. • Lab results
• Progress notes
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Lab tests can be accepted as supplemental data, reducing the need for some chart review. Please
contact your UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss clinical data exchange opportunities.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of First-Line Psychosocial care for Children
and Adolescents on Antipsychotics (APP)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Yes!
Supplemental
Definition data accepted
Percentage of children and adolescents ages 1–17 who had a new
prescription for an antipsychotic and had Psychosocial care or
residential behavioral health treatment as first line treatment in 121
days. 121 days includes 90 days before the earliest dispensing date to 30 days after.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation Administrative
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Claim/encounter data
• Select State Medicaid • Pharmacy data
Reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Psychosocial care
CPT®/CPT II 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845, 90846, 90847,
90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 90880
HCPCS G0176, G0177, G0409, G0410, G0411, H0004, H0035, H0036, H0037, H0038, H0039,
H0040, H2000, H2001, H2011, H2012, H2013, H2014, H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020,
S0201, S9480, S9484, S9485
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of First-Line Psychosocial care for Children
and Adolescents on Antipsychotics (APP) (cont.)
Psychosocial care
SNOMED 166001, 1555005, 2619005, 3518004, 5694008, 6227009, 7133001, 8411005,
9591001, 15142007, 15558000, 15711005, 17447008, 17914007, 18512000, 19997007,
21055002, 22900004, 24172008, 24621000, 25621005, 26693005, 26829003,
26890005, 27482005, 27591006, 28868002, 28988002, 30808008, 31408009,
31594000, 32051004, 33661004, 35358007, 36230009, 38592005, 38678006,
39697002, 41035007, 41653002, 41838008, 45565001, 46618005, 47805006,
50160009, 51484002, 51790004, 53508008, 53769000, 57070007, 57847003,
58771002, 59364003, 59585002, 59694001, 61436009, 62474003, 63386006,
65201004, 66060003, 73139001, 75516001, 76168009, 76740001, 77170008,
78493007, 79441000, 82309004, 83474000, 84892007, 85614001, 85925008,
88848003, 89909007, 90102008, 91172002, 91425008, 91481002, 108313002,
113141001, 113143003, 113144009, 171423009, 171424003, 171425002, 171426001,
183339004, 183381005, 183382003, 183383008, 183385001, 183387009,
183388004, 183389007, 183391004, 183393001, 183395008, 183396009,
183398005, 183399002, 183401008, 183402001, 183403006, 183405004,
183406003, 183408002, 183411001, 183413003, 183422002, 225160006,
225224008, 225225009, 225226005, 225227001, 225333008, 228546003,
228548002, 228549005, 228550005, 228551009, 228553007, 228554001,
228555000, 228557008, 228575009, 229216005, 229217001, 229218006,
229219003, 229220009, 229221008, 229306004, 266744007, 299695005,
302230009, 302234000, 302235004, 302236003, 302238002, 302239005,
302240007, 302242004, 302243009, 302244003, 302245002, 302247005,
302248000, 302255003, 302259009, 302260004, 302262007, 302683009,
303262000, 304637004, 304638009, 304702006, 304814008, 304815009,
304816005, 304817001, 304818006, 304819003, 304820009, 304821008,
304822001, 304824000, 304825004, 304826003, 304851002, 304888004,
304889007, 304893001, 304894007, 311460008, 311461007, 311462000
311510000, 311511001, 311522002, 311523007, 311884008, 312043006, 312044000,
313105004, 314034001, 361229007, 361230002, 385768000, 385769008,
385770009, 385771008, 385772001, 385773006, 385774000, 385893007,
385992003, 386255004, 386256003, 386257007, 386316003, 386367000,
386429002, 386522008, 386523003, 386524009, 386525005, 390773006,
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of First-Line Psychosocial care for Children
and Adolescents on Antipsychotics (APP) (cont.)
Psychosocial care
SNOMED (cont.) 391892008, 397074006, 401157001, 401162000, 405780009, 405792009,
405793004, 406165004, 406183007, 406184001, 406185000, 410112008,
410115005, 410118007, 410121009, 410124001, 410127008, 410130001, 425680009,
427954006, 429048003, 429159005, 429329005, , 439330009, 439436002,
439741009, 439795004, 439805004, 439820005, 439916005, 440274001,
440582002, 440646003, 443119008, 443730003, 444175001, 449030000,
700445002, 700446001, 702471009, 702780005, 711078000, 711283001,
712558003, 718023002, 718026005, 720444008, 723528003, 723619005,
734278000, 736861004, 866252000, 868185009, 1163366004, 1236920000,
1256107005, 1259023009, 1300121009, 460891000124103, 460901000124104,
461561000124103
Residential behavioral health treatment
HCPCS H0017, H0018, H0019, T2048
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• One or more acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis of
schizophrenia
• Members who were diagnosed on at least 2 different dates of service
during the measurement year with schizophrenia, schizoaffective
disorder, bipolar disorder, other psychotic disorder, autism or
other developmental disorders where first-line antipsychotic
medication is clinically appropriate
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Use of First-Line Psychosocial care for Children
and Adolescents on Antipsychotics (APP) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Make sure children and adolescents receive • Monitor children/adolescents prescribed
a psychosocial care appointment at least 90 antipsychotics closely as they are more at
days prior to prescribing medication or within risk for serious health concerns, including
30 days of starting an initial prescription if weight gain, extrapyramidal side effects,
there is an urgent need for medication hyperprolactinemia and some metabolic
• Psychosocial treatments (interventions) effects including glucose and
include, but are not limited to, structured cholesterol levels
counseling, case management, care • Educate and inform parents/guardians of
coordination, psychotherapy, crisis the increased side effect burden of multiple
intervention services, individual, family and concurrent antipsychotics on children’s
group psychotherapy, activity therapy (music, health, which has implications for future
art or play therapy not for recreation) and physical health concerns
relapse prevention • Offer National Suicide Prevention Lifeline for
• Refer patients to a mental health patient to call, text or chat 988 when needed
professional:
– If you need to refer your patient to a
behavioral health specialist or need to
request coordination of care, please call the
number on the back of the patient’s health
plan ID card or search liveandworkwell.com
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition
and Physical Activity for Children/Adolescents
(WCC)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes to this measure Supplemental
Data Accepted
Definition
Percentage of members ages 3–17 who had an outpatient visit
with a primary care provider or OB-GYN and had evidence of the
following during the measurement year:
• Body mass index (BMI) percentile • Counseling for physical activity
• Counseling for nutrition
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Hybrid
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Accreditation • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Medical record documentation
(BMI Percentile Only)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
BMI percentile
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z68.51, Z68.52, Z68.53, Z68.54, Z68.55, Z68.56
LOINC 59574-4, 59575-1, 59576-9
Counseling for nutrition
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z71.3
CPT®/CPT II 97802, 97803, 97804
HCPCS G0270, G0271, G0447, S9449, S9452, S9470
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition
and Physical Activity for Children/Adolescents
(WCC)(cont.)
Counseling for nutrition
SNOMED 11816003, 61310001, 183059007, 183060002, 183061003, 183062005, 183063000,
183065007, 183066008, 183067004, 183070000, 183071001, 226067002,
266724001, 275919002, 281085002, 284352003, 305849009, 305850009,
305851008, 306163007, 306164001, 306165000, 306626002, 306627006,
306628001, 313210009, 370847001, 386464006, 404923009, 408910007,
410171007, 410177006, 410200000, 429095004, 431482008, 443288003,
609104008, 698471002, 699827002, 699829004, 699830009, 699849008,
700154005, 700258004, 705060005, 710881000, 1230141004, 14051000175103,
428461000124101, 428691000124107, 441041000124100, 441201000124108,
441231000124100, 441241000124105, 441251000124107, 441261000124109,
441271000124102, 441281000124104, 441291000124101, 441301000124100,
441311000124102, 441321000124105, 441331000124108, 441341000124103,
441351000124101, 445291000124103, 445301000124102, 445331000124105,
445641000124105
Counseling for physical activity
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z02.5, Z71.82
HCPCS G0447, S9451
SNOMED 103736005, 183073003, 281090004, 304507003, 304549008, 304558001,
310882002, 386291006, 386292004, 386463000, 390864007, 390893007,
398636004, 398752005, 408289007, 410200000, 410289001, 410335001,
429778002, 710849009, 435551000124105
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition
and Physical Activity for Children/Adolescents
(WCC)(cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Members with a diagnosis of pregnancy
Important notes
Medical record detail including, but
not limited to
• For ages 3–17, a BMI percentile or BMI percentile plotted • Growth charts with percentile
on an age growth chart meets compliance. An absolute • History and physical
BMI value will not meet compliance for this age range. • Progress notes
– Always record height and weight in a member’s • Vitals sheet
medical record
• After visit summary
• BMI percentile ranges or thresholds will not
meet compliance
– This is true even for single ranges – for example,
17-18%
o The only exception are values <1% or >99%
• Weight assessment and counseling for nutrition and
physical activity can be completed at any appointment –
not just a well-child visit. However, services specific to an
acute or chronic condition will not meet compliance for
counseling for nutrition or physical activity.
– For example: Member has exercise-induced asthma or
decreased appetite because of flu symptoms
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition
and Physical Activity for Children/Adolescents
(WCC)(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity for physical activity counseling. However, a
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to see checklist indicating “physical activity was
members with open care opportunities. If addressed” or evidence of a sports
you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare physical will.
representative can help. • Provide parents of children ages 4 and older
• A BMI percentile is not the same as a BMI value. with age appropriate handout(s) that include
If your electronic medical record (EMR) system a section on physical activity outside of
documents a BMI value and does not translate developmental milestones.
it to a BMI percentile in ranges, please work For example:
with your IT department. It is required to have a – Recommended guidelines for amount of
documented BMI percentile in a activity per day or week
singular value.
• Discuss proper nutrition and promote physical
• For example: 18% instead of 17-18% activity with parents and members at every visit
• Your EMR may include a plotted age growth • Talk with parents and members about nutrition
chart for BMI percentile with the service date and physical activity for at least 15 minutes at
and a member's height and weight. Vital charts each well-child visit
with this information will also close the gap.
• Be sure to document “MEAT” when counseling
• Documentation of BMI percentile and for obesity:
counseling for nutrition or physical activity can
– Manage the behavioral effects due to obesity
be done at any time during the measurement
– Evaluate the behavioral effects of obesity
year and on separate visits
– Assess the level of obesity
• Including a checklist in a member’s medical
– Treat obesity
record is a good way to make sure all measure
components are completed. For example: • If filing G0447 with a well-child visit, attach
modifier 25 or 59 to the well-child procedure
– A notation of “well nourished” during a
code so it’s reviewed as a significant, separately
physical exam will not meet compliance for
identifiable procedure
nutritional counseling. However, a checklist
indicating that “nutrition was addressed” will. – Modifier 25 is used to indicate a significant
and separately identifiable evaluation and
– A notation of “cleared for gym class” or
management (E/M) service by the same
“health education” will not meet compliance
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Weight Assessment and Counseling for Nutrition
and Physical Activity for Children/Adolescents
(WCC) (cont.)
physician on the same day another procedure • Checklist indicating nutrition was addressed
or service was performed • Counseling or referral for nutrition education
– Modifier 59 is used to indicate that 2 or more • Member received educational materials on
procedures were performed at the same visit, nutrition during a face-to-face visit
but to different sites on the body
• Anticipatory guidance for nutrition
• BMI percentiles and evidence of counseling for
• Weight or obesity counseling
nutrition and physical activity can be accepted
as supplemental data, reducing the need
for some chart review. Please contact your
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
clinical data exchange opportunities.
Counseling may include:
• Discussion of current nutrition behaviors (e.g.,
eating habits, dieting behaviors)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Well-Child Visits in the First 30 Months
of Life (W30)
New for 2025
Added Yes!
• Telehealth visits do not meet gap closure criteria Supplemental
data accepted
Definition
Percentage of members who turned 15–30 months old during the
measurement year and had the recommended number of well-child
visits with a primary care provider.
• Children 0-15 months old during the measurement year: 6 or more well-child visits
in the first 15 months of life
• Children 15-30 months old during the measurement year: 2 or more well-child visits
between 15–30 months of age
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Exchange/Marketplace • Select Medicaid state • Claim/encounter data
• Medicaid reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Well-care visits
CPT®/CPT II 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99391, 99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99461
HCPCS G0438, G0439, S0302, S0610, S0612, S0613
ICD-10 Diagnosis Z00.00, Z00.01, Z00.110, Z00.111, Z00.121, Z00.129, Z00.2, Z00.3, Z01.411, Z01.419,
Z02.5, Z02.84, Z76.1, Z76.2
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Well-Child Visits in the First 30 Months
of Life (W30) (cont.)
Well-care visits
SNOMED 103740001, 170099002, 170107008, 170114005, 170123008, 170132005, 170141000,
170150003, 170159002, 170168000, 170250008, 170254004, 170263002,
170272005, 170281004, 170290006, 170300004, 170309003, 171387006,
171394009, 171395005, 171409007, 171410002, 171416008, 171417004, 243788004,
268563000, 270356004, 401140000, 410620009, 410621008, 410622001,
410623006, 410624000, 410625004, 410626003, 410627007, 410628002,
410629005, 410630000, 410631001, 410632008, 410633003, 410634009,
410635005, 410636006, 410637002, 410638007, 410639004, 410640002,
410641003, 410642005, 410643000, 410644006, 410645007, 410646008,
410647004, 410648009, 410649001, 410650001, 442162000, 783260003,
1269517007, 444971000124105, 446301000124108, 446381000124104,
669251000168104, 669261000168102, 669271000168108, 669281000168106
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Well-Child Visits in the First 30 Months
of Life (W30) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity - W30 15-30: Children ages 18-20 months and
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to have completed 1 well-child visit
see members with open care opportunities. - Offer options such as extended hours in the
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare evening, weekend appointments, walk-in
representative can help. clinicx or block scheduling for families to help
• Visits billed with a code that indicates telehealth, accommodate working parents/caregivers
online assessments or telephone visits will not and school hours to alleviate the burden
meet gap closure criteria of managing multiple appointments and
• The Bright Futures/American Academy of competing time commitments
Pediatrics (AAP) Recommendations for - Partner with your UnitedHealthcare
Preventive Pediatric Health Care, also known as representative to see if there are options to
the Periodicity Schedule outlines the schedule assist those families who frequently have to
of screenings and assessments recommended cancel due to transportation issues or other
at each well-child visit from infancy through barriers to care, social determinants of
adolescence. The benefit of preventive care health, etc.
is well published and based on our internal • If provider is seeing a patient for Evaluation
analytics. The following are some strategies that and Management (E/M) services and all well-
may be implemented to impact the well-child child visit components are completed, attach
visit rate and provide an opportunity to identify modifier 25 or 59 to the well-child procedure
and address concerns: code so it’s reviewed as a significant, separately
- Use your Patient Care Opportunity Report identifiable procedure
(PCOR) on a monthly basis to focus outreach – Modifier 25 is used to indicate a significant
efforts on: and separately identifiable evaluation and
- W30 0-15: Children ages 12-14 months and have management (E/M) service by the same
completed only 5 well visits physician on the same day another procedure
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Well-Child Visits in the First 30 Months
of Life (W30) (cont.)
or service was performed can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
– Modifier 59 is used to indicate that 2 or more language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
procedures were performed at the same visit, but pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
to different sites on the body disability status.
• Helpful resources about the components of care – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
are available at brightfutures.aap.org structured data exchange program, we
• Well-care visits can be accepted as supplemental encourage you to include this demographic
data, reducing the need for some chart data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
review. Please contact your UnitedHealthcare information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
representative to discuss clinical data exchange will keep personally identifiable information
opportunities. confidential and won't disclose any information
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to without your written consent.
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Adult Immunization Status (AIS-E)
New for 2025
Added
• Added a Hepatitis B immunization indicator
Updated
• Updated the denominator age range for pneumococcal immunization indicator
• Removed herpes zoster live vaccine from the herpes zoster immunization indicator
• Revised herpes zoster numerator criteria to on or after Oct. 20, 2017, through the end of
the measurement year
Definition
Percentage of members ages 19 and older who have had the following vaccinations in the
recommended time frame:
• 1 influenza vaccine
• 1 Td/Tdap vaccine
• 2 (recombinant) herpes zoster (shingles)
• 1 adult pneumococcal vaccine
• 3 childhood Hepatitis B vaccines or an adult Hepatitis B vaccine series
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and Reporting
Method
• Commercial • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid • CMS Star Ratings Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicare
• CMS Quality Rating System
• Exchange/Marketplace
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to
be a directive of your billing practice.
Influenza vaccine
• Number of doses: 1
• Members aged 19 and older
• Vaccine administered on or between July 1 of the year prior to measurement year and
June 30 of the measurement year
• Anaphylaxis due to the influenza vaccine will count toward compliance
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Adult Immunization Status (AIS-E) (cont.)
Influenza vaccine
• Number of doses: 1
• Members aged 19 and older
• Vaccine administered on or between July 1 of the year prior to measurement year and
June 30 of the measurement year
• Anaphylaxis due to the influenza vaccine will count toward compliance
CPT®/CPT II 90630, 90653, 90654, 90656, 90658, 90661, 90662, 90673, 90674, 90682, 90686,
90688, 90689, 90694, 90756, 90660, 90672
CVX codes 88, 135, 140, 141, 144, 150, 153, 155, 158, 166, 168, 171, 185, 186, 197, 205, 111, 149, 320
SNOMED 86198006, 787016008, 471361000124100
Td/Tdap
• Number of doses: 1
• Members age 19 and older
• Vaccine administered between 9 years prior to the start of the measurement year and the end
of the measurement year
• Anaphylaxis or encephalitis due to the diphtheria, tetanus or pertusis vaccine will count
toward compliance
CPT®/CPT II 90714, 90715
CVX codes 09, 113, 115,138, 139
73152006, 312869001, 395178008, 395179000, 395180002, 395181003,
414619005, 416144004, 416591003, 417211006, 417384007, 417615007,866161006,
866184004, 866185003, 866186002, 866227002, 868266002, 868267006,
SNOMED
868268001, 870668008, 870669000, 870670004, 871828004, 632481000119106,
390846000, 412755006, 412756007, 412757003, 428251000124104,
571571000119105
Encephalitis due to diphtheria, tetanus or pertussis vaccine
SNOMED 192710009, 192711008, 192712001
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Adult Immunization Status (AIS-E) (cont.)
Anaphylaxis due to diphtheria, tetanus or pertussis vaccine
SNOMED 428281000124107, 428291000124105
Adult pneumococcal vaccine
• Number of doses: 1
• Members age 65 and older
• Vaccine administered on or after member's 19th birthday and before or during the
measurement year
• Anaphylaxis to the pneumococcal vaccine any time before or during the measurement year
will count toward compliance
CPT®/CPT II 90670, 90671, 90677, 90732, 90684
CVX codes 33, 109, 133, 152, 215, 216, 327
12866006, 394678003, 871833000, 1119366009, 1119367000, 1119368005,
SNOMED
1296904008, 434751000124102
HCPCS G0009
Anaphylaxis due to pneumococcal vaccine
SNOMED 471141000124102
Herpes Zoster (shingles)
• Number of doses: 2 doses of herpes zoster recombinant vaccine
• Members ages 50 and older
• Vaccine administered on Oct. 20, 2017, through the end of the measurement year
• The recombinant vaccine must be at least 28 days apart
• Anaphylaxis to the herpes zoster will count toward compliance
CPT®/CPT II 90750
CVX codes 187
SNOMED 722215002
Anaphylaxis due to herpes zoster vaccine
SNOMED 471371000124107, 471381000124105
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Adult Immunization Status (AIS-E) (cont.)
Hepatitis B vaccine
• 3 doses of childhood hepatitis B vaccine administered on or before the 19th birthday; or
• An adult hepatitis B vaccine series administered on or after the 19th birthday
– 2 doses of the recommended 2-dose adult hepatitis B vaccine at least 28 days apart; or
– 3 doses of any other recommended adult hepatitis B vaccine on different dates of service
• History of hepatitis B vaccine any time before or during the measurement year
• Anaphylaxis to the hepatitis B vaccine any time before or during the measurement year will count
toward compliance
Childhood hepatitis B vaccine
CPT/CPT II 90740, 90747, 90744, 90723, 90697, 90748
CVX codes 08, 44, 45, 51, 110, 146, 198
HCPCS G0010
16584000, 170370000, 170371001, 170372008, 170373003, 170374009, 170375005,
170434002, 170435001, 170436000, 170437009, 312868009, 396456003,
SNOMED
416923003, 770608009, 770616000, 770617009, 770618004, 786846001,
1162640003, 572561000119108
Newborn hep B
Number of doses: 1 of 3 eligible
ICD-10 Procedure 3E0234Z
Adult hepatitis B vaccine series
CPT/CPT II 90739, 90740, 90743, 90744, 90746, 90747, 90759
CVX codes 43, 44, 45, 104, 189, 220
Positive hepatitis B surface antigen, surface antibody, or core antigen test result
10900-9, 13919-6, 13952-7, 16933-4, 16935-9, 16935-9, 22316-4, 22318-0, 22319-8,
22322-2, 24113-3, 31204-1, 32019-2, 32685-0, 39535-0, 40725-4, 48070-7, 49177-9,
LOINC 49495-5, 5185-4, 5186-2, 5187-0, 5188-8, 51914-0, 5193-8, 5193-8, 5194-6, 5195-3,
5196-1, 5197-9, 58405-2, 58452-4, 63557-3, 65633-0, 70154-0, 75378-0, 75409-3,
75410-1, 7905-3, 83100-8, 95234-1, 99385-7
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Adult Immunization Status (AIS-E) (cont.)
Positive hepatitis B surface antigen, surface antibody, or core antigen test result
10828004, 165806002, 260373001, 271511000, 313234004, 406117000,
SNOMED
736687002, 105811000119100
History of hepatitis
ICD-10 Diagnosis B16.0, B16.1, B16.2, B16.9, B17.0, B18.0, B18.1, B19.10, B19.11
1116000, 13265006, 26206000, 38662009, 50167007, 53425008, 60498001,
61977001, 66071002, 76795007, 111891008, 165806002, 186624004, 186626002,
186639003, 235864009, 235865005, 235869004, 235871004, 271511000,
SNOMED
313234004, 406117000, 424099008, 424340000, 442134007, 442374005,
446698005, 838380002, 1230342001, 153091000119109, 551621000124109,
16859701000119100
Anaphylaxis due to hepatitis B vaccine
SNOMED 428321000124101
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Adult Immunization Status (AIS-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Standing orders can help your office staff be • Stock vaccines in your office to make the visit a
part of the vaccination process single stop for the patient and leverage trained
– Offer vaccine information sheets (VIS) to read staff to administer as part of their visit
while patients wait • Consider which vaccines are most commonly
– Medical assistants can verify interest and needed based on your community
obtain the vaccine to be administered
• Have a quick reference where patients can get
– Train staff to answer questions, administer and
vaccines not stocked at your office
document in the patient’s chart
• Place images and information about
– Consider having front office staff offer VISs in
vaccinations throughout your office, including
the patient’s preferred language
that they may be covered by the patient’s health
– Immunize.org offers numerous translations
plan or low cost, on:
that can be selected and printed, as needed
– Posters
• Have office staff wear pins that show they’ve
– Placards
been vaccinated to help prompt patients to
– Stickers on charts
ask questions
• Sharing member demographic data is critical
– Example: A ‘Got my flu shot’ button may
to understanding the cultural, linguistic and
prompt someone to ask if flu shots
social needs of those we serve and decreasing
are available
health inequities across the care continuum.
• Provide patients information about vaccines This data can include, but is not limited to, race,
based on timing and eligibility ethnicity, language, sexual orientation, gender
– As members are turning 50, share information identity, pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
about the shingles vaccine disability status.
– Ask or check when patients received their – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
last Tdap, has it been 10 years? structured data exchange program, we
– If they have a qualifying health condition encourage you to include this demographic
or turning 65, share information about data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
pneumonia vaccines information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
– September through November provide will keep personally identifiable information
information on influenza vaccines confidential and won't disclose any information
– Offer flu shots to eligible members at all visits without your written consent.
during flu season
– Ask whether the patient has been screened
for adult Hepatitis B and if they have had
a vaccination. If not, offer the screening
and vaccination.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Breast Cancer Screening (BCS-E)
New for 2025
•
Expanded the age range to 40 -74
Yes!
Definition
Supplemental
Percentage of members ages 40-74 who were recommended for
Data Accepted
routine breast cancer screening and had a mammogram screening
completed on or by Oct. 1, 2 years prior to the measurement year
through Dec. 31 of the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Star Ratings • Electronic Clinical Data
• Exchange/Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicaid • NCQA Accreditation
• Medicare • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Mammography
CPT®/CPT II 77061, 77062, 77063, 77065, 77066, 77067
LOINC 103885-0, 103886-8, 103892-6, 103893-4, 103894-2, 24604-1, 24605-8, 24606-6,
24610-8, 26175-0, 26176-8, 26177-6, 26287-3, 26289-9, 26291-5, 26346-7, 26347-5,
26348-3, 26349-1, 26350-9, 26351-7, 36319-2, 36625-2, 36626-0, 36627-8, 36642-7,
36962-9, 37005-6, 37006-4, 37016-3, 37017-1, 37028-8, 37029-6, 37030-4, 37037-9,
37038-7, 37052-8, 37053-6, 37539-4, 37542-8, 37543-6, 37551-9, 37552-7, 37553-5,
37554-3, 37768-9, 37769-7, 37770-5, 37771-3, 37772-1, 37773-9, 37774-7, 37775-4,
38070-9, 38071-7, 38072-5, 38090-7, 38091-5, 38807-4, 38820-7, 38854-6, 38855-3,
42415-0, 42416-8, 46335-6, 46336-4, 46337-2, 46338-0, 46339-8, 46350-5, 46351-
3, 46356-2, 46380-2, 48475-8, 48492-3, 69150-1, 69251-7, 69259-0, 72137-3, 72138-
1, 72139-9, 72140-7, 72141-5, 72142-3, 86462-9, 86463-7, 91517-3, 91518-1, 91519-9,
91520-7, 91521-5, 91522-3
SNOMED 12389009, 24623002, 43204002, 71651007, 241055006, 241057003, 241058008,
258172002, 439324009, 450566007, 723778004, 723779007, 723780005,
726551006, 833310007, 866234000, 866235004, 866236003, 866237007,
384151000119104, 392521000119107, 392531000119105, 566571000119105,
572701000119102, 1333997002, 1333998007, 1333999004, 1334000002,
1334001003, 1334002005, 308001000000100, 308031000000106
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Breast Cancer Screening (BCS-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Members receiving palliative care
Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the Frailty diagnoses must be in the
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. Members measurement year and on different
must meet both frailty and advanced illness criteria to qualify as dates of service
an exclusion:
Advanced illness diagnosis must
• Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates of
be in the measurement year or year
service during the measurement year. Do not include claims
prior to the measurement year
where the frailty diagnosis was from an independent lab
(POS 81).
• Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
– At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do not
include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis was
from an independent lab (POS 81).
– Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil, Donepezil-
Memantine, Galantamine, Rivastigmine or Memantine
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
• Living long term in an institution*
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Breast Cancer Screening (BCS-E) (cont.)
Exclusion Time frame
Bilateral mastectomy Any time in a member’s
• History of bilateral mastectomy history through Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
• Unilateral mastectomy with a bilateral modifier
– Documentation of unilateral mastectomy may come from
claims or the medical record
• Any combination of the following that indicate a mastectomy
on both the left and right side:
– Absence of the left and right breast
– Unilateral mastectomy (claims or medical record) with a
bilateral modifier or a bilateral qualifier value
– Left unilateral mastectomy
– Right unilateral mastectomy
• Members who had gender-affirming chest surgery with a
diagnosis of gender dysphoria
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
• This measure does not Mammogram – all types and • Consultation reports
include biopsies, breast methods including screening, • Diagnostic reports
ultrasounds or MRIs diagnostic, film, digital or
• Health history and physical
• If documenting a digital breast tomosynthesis
mammogram in a
member’s history, please
include the month and
year. The result is
not required.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Breast Cancer Screening (BCS-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity and physical, the code should be submitted
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to with the initial visit claim
see members with open care opportunities. – If a member isn’t new to the care provider,
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare but the member’s chart has a documented
representative can help. history of the diagnosis , the ICD-10 Diagnosis
• Always include a date of service – year and code should be submitted on any visit claim
month is acceptable – when documenting a • Breast cancer screening or mastectomy
mammogram reported by a member codes can be accepted as supplemental data,
• Per the CDC, lymphadenopathy may occur 4-6 reducing the need for some chart review. Please
weeks after the COVID-19 vaccination. Please contact your UnitedHealthcare representative
encourage your patients to wait the appropriate to discuss clinical data exchange opportunities.
amount of time before scheduling their • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
mammogram or complete the mammogram understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
before receiving the COVID-19 vaccine, to needs of those we serve and decreasing health
account for lymphadenopathy. This will inequities across the care continuum. This data
help prevent the vaccine impacting can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
screening results. language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
• Thermography for any indication (including pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
breast lesions which were excluded from disability status.
Medicare coverage on July 20, 1984) is excluded – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
from Medicare coverage structured data exchange program, we
• As an administrative measure, it’s important to encourage you to include this demographic
submit the appropriate ICD-10 Diagnosis code data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
that reflects a member’s history of bilateral information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
mastectomy, Z90.13 will keep personally identifiable information
– If a member is new to the care provider and confidential and won't disclose any
the diagnosis is discovered during the history information without your written consent.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Cervical Cancer Screening (CCS-E)
New for 2025
Yes!
Updated
Supplemental
• The measure is referred to only as CCS-E and will be an
data accepted
electronic-only measure
Definition
Percentage of members ages 21-64 who were recommended for routine cervical cancer screening and
were screened for cervical cancer using any of the following criteria:
• Members recommended for routine cervical cancer screening ages 21–64 who had Cervical cytology
performed in the measurement year or 2 years prior
• Members recommended for routine cervical cancer screening ages 30–64 who had Cervical cytology/
high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) co-testing performed in the measurement year or four years
prior. The member must have been at least age 30 on the date of the test.
• Members recommended for routine cervical cancer screening ages 30–64 who had cervical high-risk
human papillomavirus (hrHPV) testing performed in the measurement year or four years prior
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System • Electronic Clinical Data
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Accreditation Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Cervical Cancer Screening (CCS-E) (cont.)
Codes
Cervical cytology
CPT®/CPT II 88141, 88142, 88143, 88147, 88148, 88150, 88152, 88153, 88164, 88165, 88166, 88167,
88174, 88175
HCPCS G0123, G0124, G0141, G0143, G0144, G0145, G0147, G0148, P3000, P3001
LOINC 10524-7, 18500-9, 19762-4, 19765-7, 19766-5, 19774-9, 33717-0, 47527-7,
47528-5, 104866-9
SNOMED 1155766001, 168406009, 168407000, 168408005, 168410007, 168414003,
168415002, 168416001, 168424006, 171149006, 250538001, 269957009,
269958004, 269959007, 269960002, 269961003, 269963000, 275805003,
281101005, 309081009, 310841002, 310842009, 416030007, 416032004,
416033009, 416107004, 417036008, 439074000, 439776006, 439888000,
440623000, 441087007, 441088002, 441094005, 441219009, 441667007,
448651000124104, 62051000119105, 62061000119107, 700399008,
700400001, 98791000119102
High-risk HPV test
CPT®/CPT II 87624, 87625, 87626, 0502U
HCPCS G0476
LOINC 104132-6, 77379-6, 82354-2, 77399-4, 59263-4, 82456-5, 82675-0, 59420-0,
30167-1, 21440-3, 77400-0, 59264-2, 75694-0, 95539-3, 71431-1, 104170-6,
38372-9, 69002-4, 104752-1, 104766-1, 104783-6
SNOMED 35904009, 448651000124104, 718591004
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Cervical Cancer Screening (CCS-E)(cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
Members with sex assigned at birth (LOINC code 76689-9) of Any time in a member’s
male (LOINC code LA2-8) history through Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
Hysterectomy with no residual cervix, cervical agenesis or Any time in a member’s
acquired absence of cervix. Exclusion codes listed below. history through Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
ICD-10-CM/ Q51.5, Z90.710, Z90.712, 0UTC0ZZ, 0UTC4ZZ, 0UTC7ZZ, 0UTC8ZZ
ICD10PCS
CPT®/CPT II 57530, 57531, 57540, 57545, 57550, 57555, 57556, 58150, 58152, 58200, 58210,
58240, 58260, 58262, 58263, 58267, 58270, 58275, 58280, 58285, 58290, 58291,
58292, 58293, 58294, 58548, 58550, 58552, 58553, 58554, 58570, 58571, 58572,
58573, 58575, 58951, 58953, 58954, 58956, 59135
SNOMED 10738891000119107, 116140006, 116142003, 116143008, 116144002, 1163275000,
1287897002, 176697007, 236888001, 236891001, 24293001, 248911005, 27950001,
287924009, 307771009, 31545000, 35955002, 361222003, 361223008, 37687000,
387626007, 414575003, 41566006, 428078001, 429290001, 429763009,
440383008, 446446002, 446679008, 46226009, 473171009, 59750000,
608805000, 608806004, 608807008, 708877008, 708878003, 723171001,
739671004, 739672006, 739673001, 739674007, 740514001, 740515000,
767610009, 767611008, 767612001, 82418001, 86477000, 88144003
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Cervical Cancer Screening (CCS-E)(cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
Measurement year or 2 • Cervical cytology for • Consultation reports
years prior members ages 21–64 • Diagnostic reports
Measurement year or 4 • High-risk HPV test (hrHPV) • Health history and physical
with results or findings for
years prior – test must • Lab reports
members ages 30-64
be performed when the
member is age 30 or older
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity history of the diagnosis, the ICD-10 diagnosis
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to code should be submitted on any visit claim
see members with open care opportunities. • Documentation of a “hysterectomy” alone will
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare not meet the intent of the exclusion
representative can help.
– The documentation must include the words
• Evidence of hrHPV testing within the last 5 years “total,” “complete” or “radical” abdominal or
also captures patients who had cotesting vaginal hysterectomy
– Documentation of “HPV Test” can be counted
– Documentation of a “vaginal Pap smear” with
as evidence of hrHPV Test, as long as the
documentation of “hysterectomy”
result is documented
– Documentation of hysterectomy and
• As an administrative measure, it's important
documentation that a member no longer
to submit the appropriate ICD-10 diagnosis
needs Pap testing/cervical cancer screening
code that reflects a member's history of
• Member reported information documented
"Hysterectomy with no residual cervix, cervical
in the patient’s medical record is acceptable
agenesis or acquired absence of cervix"
as long as there is a date and result of the test
– If a member is new to the care provider and
or a date of the hysterectomy and acceptable
the diagnosis is discovered during the history
documentation of no residual cervix. The
and physical, the code should be submitted
member reported information must be logged
with the initial visit claim
in the patient’s chart by a care provider.
– If a member isn't new to the care provider
but the member's chart has a documented
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Cervical Cancer Screening (CCS-E)(cont.)
• Biopsies are diagnostic and therapeutic, and not • Educate members on the importance of early
valid for primary cervical cancer screening. detection and encourage routine screening
• Lab results for cervical cancer screening or • Create care gap alerts in your electronic medical
procedure codes for hysterectomy can be record and proactively outreach to members
accepted as supplemental data. Please contact who are not scheduled (scheduling calls, emails,
your UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss time for screening postcards, etc.)
clinical data exchange opportunities. – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to structured data exchange program, we
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social encourage you to include this demographic
needs of those we serve and decreasing health data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
inequities across the care continuum. This data information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, will keep personally identifiable information
language, sexual orientation, gender identity, confidential and won't disclose any information
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and without your written consent.
disability status.
• Assess and address member barriers to regular
cervical cancer screening (e.g., access to care,
transportation, cost, fear/anxiety)
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E)
New for 2025
Yes!
Added
Supplemental
• Organ and bone marrow transplants are now required exclusions
Data Accepted
Updated
• CIS will now only be referred to as CIS-E and will be an electronic
measure only
Definition
Percentage of children age 2 who had 4 doses of diphtheria, tetanus and a cellular pertussis (DTaP)
vaccine; 1 hepatitis A (Hep A) vaccine; 3 doses of hepatitis B (Hep B) vaccine; 3 doses of haemophilus
influenza type B (HiB) vaccine; 2 doses of influenza (flu) vaccine; 3 doses of polio (IPV) vaccine; 1 measles,
mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine; 4 doses of pneumococcal conjugate (PCV) vaccine; 2 or 3 doses of
rotavirus (RV) vaccine; and 1 chicken pox (VZV) vaccine on or before their second birthday.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System • Electronic Clinical Data
• Exchange/Marketplace (Combination 10) Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings
(Combination 10)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
DTaP vaccine
Number of doses: 4
Special circumstances
• Do not count dose administered from birth through 42 days
• If applicable, anaphylaxis or encephalitis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be
documented in the medical record to count toward the numerator using hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90697, 90698, 90700, 90723
CVX codes 20, 50, 106, 107, 110, 120, 146, 198
Anaphylaxis due to the diphtheria, tetanus or pertussis vaccine
SNOMED 428281000124107, 428291000124105
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
Encephalitis due to the diphtheria, tetanus or pertussis vaccine
SNOMED 192710009, 192711008, 192712001
Hep A vaccine or history of hepatitis A illness
Number of doses: 1
Special circumstances
• Must be administered on or between a child’s first and second birthdays
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90633
CVX codes 31, 83, 85
SNOMED 170378007, 170379004, 170380001, 170381002, 170434002, 170435001,
170436000, 170437009, 243789007, 312868009, 314177003, 314178008,
314179000, 394691002, 871752004, 871753009, 871754003, 571511000119102
History of Hepatitis A
ICD-10 Diagnosis B15.0, B15.9
SNOMED 16060001, 18917003, 25102003, 40468003, 43634002, 79031007, 111879004,
165997004, 206373002, 278971009, 310875001, 424758008 428030001,
105801000119103
Anaphylaxis due to the hepatitis A vaccine
SNOMED 471311000124103
Hep B vaccine, history of hepatitis B illness
Number of doses: 3
Special circumstances
• One of the 3 can be the newborn hepatitis B vaccine given at hospital on date of birth or 7 days after
(see code below)
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90697, 90723, 90740, 90744, 90747, 90748
CVX codes 08, 44, 45, 51, 110, 146, 198
HCPCS G0010
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
Hep B vaccine, history of hepatitis B illness
Number of doses: 3
Special circumstances
• One of the 3 can be the newborn hepatitis B vaccine given at hospital on date of birth or 7 days after
(see code below)
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using hybrid specifications
SNOMED 16584000, 170370000, 170371001, 170372008, 170373003, 170374009, 170375005,
170434002, 170435001, 170436000, 170437009, 312868009, 396456003,
416923003, 770608009, 770616000, 770617009, 770618004, 786846001,
1162640003, 572561000119108
Newborn Hep B
Number of doses: 1 of 3 eligible
ICD-10 Procedure 3E0234Z
History of hepatitis B
ICD-10 Diagnosis B16.0, B16.1, B16.2, B16.9, B17.0, B18.0, B18.1, B19.10, B19.11
SNOMED 153091000119109, 551621000124109, 1116000, 13265006, 26206000, 38662009,
50167007, 53425008, 60498001, 61977001, 66071002, 76795007, 111891008,
165806002, 186624004 186626002, 186639003, 235864009, 235865005,
235869004, 235871004, 271511000, 313234004, 406117000, 424099008,
424340000, 442134007, 442374005, 446698005, 838380002, 1230342001
Anaphylaxis due to the hepatitis B vaccine
SNOMED 1428321000124101
HiB vaccine
Number of doses: 3
Special circumstances
• Do not count dose administered from birth through 42 days
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90644, 90647, 90648, 90697, 90698, 90748
CVX codes 17, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 120, 146, 148, 198
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
Anaphylaxis due to the haemophilus B vaccine
SNOMED 433621000124101
Influenza vaccine
Number of doses: 2
Special circumstances
• Do not count dose administered prior to 180 days after birth
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90655, 90657, 90661, 90674, 90685, 90686, 90687, 90688, 90689, 90756,
90656, 90658
CVX codes 88, 140, 141, 150, 153, 155, 158, 161, 171, 186, 320
SNOMED 86198006
Anaphylaxis due to the influenza vaccine on or before the child’s second birthday
SNOMED 471361000124100
Live attenuated influenza virus
Number of doses: 1
Special circumstances
• Must be administered on the second birthday
• Only 1 of the 2 required vaccinations can be LAIV
CPT®/CPT II 90660, 90672
CVX codes 111, 149
SNOMED 787016008
IPV vaccine
Number of doses: 3
Special circumstances
• Do not count dose administered from birth through 42 days
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90697, 90698, 90713, 90723
CVX codes 10, 89, 110, 120, 146
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
IPV Vaccine
Number of doses: 3
Special Circumstances
• Do not count dose administered from birth through 42 days.
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications.
SNOMED 310306005, 310307001, 310308006, 312869001, 312870000, 313383003, 390865008,
396456003, 412762002, 412763007, 412764001, 414001002, 414259000, 414619005,
414620004, 415507003, 415712004, 416144004, 416591003, 417211006, 417384007,
417615007, 866186002, 866227002, 868266002, 868267006, 868268001, 868273007,
868274001, 868276004, 868277008, 870670004, 572561000119108, 16290681000119103
Anaphylaxis due to the inactivated polio vaccine
SNOMED 471321000124106
MMR vaccine or history of measles, mumps or rubella
Number of doses: 1
Special circumstances
• Must be administered on or between a child’s first and second birthdays
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90707, 90710
CVX codes 03, 94
Anaphylaxis due to the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine on or before the child’s second birthday
SNOMED 471331000124109
History of measles
ICD-10 Diagnosis B05.0, B05.1, B05.2, B05.3, B05.4, B05.81, B05.89, B05.9
SNOMED 14189004, 28463004, 38921001, 60013002, 74918002, 111873003, 161419000,
186561002, 186562009, 195900001, 240483006, 240484000, 359686005,
371111005, 406592004, 417145006, 424306000, 105841000119101
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
History of Mumps
ICD-10 Diagnosis B26.0, B26.1, B26.2, B26.3, B26.81, B26.82, B26.83, B26.84, B26.85, B26.89, B26.9
SNOMED 10665004, 17121006, 31524007, 31646008, 36989005, 40099009, 44201003,
63462008, 72071001, 74717002, 75548002, 78580004, 89231008, 89764009,
111870000, 161420006, 235123001, 236771002, 237443002, 240526004,
240527008, 240529006, 371112003, 1163539003, 105821000119107
History of rubella
ICD-10 Diagnosis B06.00, B06.01, B06.02, B06.09, B06.81, B06.82, B06.89, B06.9
SNOMED 10082001, 13225007, 19431000, 36653000, 51490003, 64190005, 79303006,
128191000, 161421005, 165792000, 186567003, 186570004, 192689006,
231985001, 232312000, 240485004, 253227001, 406112006, 406113001,
1092361000119109, 10759761000119100
PCV Vaccine
Number of doses: 4
Special Circumstances
• Do not count dose administered from birth through 42 days.
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications.
CPT®/CPT II 90670, 90671, 90677
CVX codes 109, 133, 152, 215, 216
HCPCS G0009
SNOMED 12866006, 394678003, 871833000, 1119366009, 1119368005, 1296904008,
434751000124102
Anaphylaxis due to the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
SNOMED 471141000124102
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
Rotavirus vaccine
Number of doses: 2 or 3 (depending on vaccine manufacturer)
Special circumstances
• Do not count dose administered from birth through 42 days
• Can combine at least 1 dose of the 2-dose vaccine and at least 2 doses of the 3-dose vaccine
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II Rotavirus 2 dose: 90681, Rotavirus 3 dose: 90680
CVX codes Rotavirus 2 dose: 119, Rotavirus 3 dose: 116, 122
SNOMED Rotavirus 2 does: 434741000124104, Rotavirus 3 dose: 434731000124109
Anaphylaxis due to the rotavirus vaccine
SNOMED 428331000124103
VZV vaccine or history of varicella zoster
Number of doses: 1
Special circumstances
• Must be administered on or between a child’s first and second birthdays
CPT®/CPT II 90710, 90716
CVX codes 21, 94
SNOMED 425897001, 428502009, 432636005, 433733003, 737081007, 871898007
871899004, 871909005, 572511000119105
Anaphylaxis due to the varicella vaccine on or before the child’s second birthday
SNOMED 471341000124104
History of Varicella Zoster
ICD-10 Diagnosis B01.0, B01.11, B01.12, B01.2, B01.81, B01.89, B01.9, B02.0, B02.1, B02.21, B02.22,
B02.23, B02.24, B02.29, B02.30, B02.31, B02.32, B02.33, B02.34, B02.39, B02.7,
B02.8, B02.9
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
History of varicella zoster
SNOMED 4740000, 10698009, 21954000, 23737006, 24059009, 31920006, 36292003,
38907003, 42448002, 49183009, 55560002, 87513003, 111859007, 111861003,
161423008, 186524006, 195911009, 230176008, 230198004, 230262004,
230536009, 232400003, 235059009, 240468001, 240470005, 240471009,
240472002, 240473007, 240474001, 309465005, 371113008, 397573005,
400020001, 402897003, 402898008, 402899000, 410500004, 410509003,
421029004, 422127002, 422446008, 422471006, 422666006, 423333008,
423628002, 424353002, 424435009, 424801004, 424941009, 425356002,
426570007, 428633000, 713250002, 713733003, 713964006, 715223009,
723109003, 838357005, 1163465001, 1163483009, 1179456002, 12551000132107,
12561000132105, 12571000132104, 98541000119101, 331071000119101,
681221000119108, 1087131000119100, 15678761000119100, 15678801000119100,
15678841000119100, 15680201000119100, 15680241000119100,
15681321000119100, 15681401000119100, 15685081000119100,
15685121000119100, 15685161000119100, 15936581000119100,
15936621000119100, 15989271000119100, 15989311000119100,
15989351000119100, 15991711000119100, 15991751000119100,
15991791000119100, 15992351000119100, 16000751000119100,
16000791000119100, 16000831000119100
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the measurement year
• Members who died
• Members who have had a contraindication to a childhood vaccine Any time on or before a member’s
• Members who have had organ and bone marrow transplants second birthday
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
Important notes
Medical record detail including, but not
limited to
A member’s medical record must include: • History and physical
• A note with the name of the specific antigen • Immunization record
and the date the vaccine was administered • Lab results
• An immunization record from an authorized • Problem list with illnesses dated
health care provider or agency – for example,
• Progress notes
a registry – including the name of the
specific antigen and the date the vaccine
was administered
Documentation that a member is up-to-date
with all immunizations, but doesn’t include a
list of the immunizations and dates they were
administered, will not meet compliance.
Documentation of physician orders, CPT codes
or billing charges will not meet compliance.
For Hep A, Hep B, MMR or VZV, documented
history of the illness counts as numerator
compliance events – but they must occur on or
before a child’s second birthday.
For all 10 antigens documented history of
anaphylaxis due to the vaccine counts as
numerator compliance.
Documentation that a vaccine was given at
birth or in the hospital will count as numerator
compliance for any vaccines that don't have
minimum age specifications.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity the burden of managing multiple appointments
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to and competing time commitments
see members with open care opportunities. – Consider setting up a drive-up
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare immunization site
representative can help.
• Schedule appointments for your patient’s next
• When documenting the rotavirus vaccine, always vaccination before they leave your office
include RotarixR or 2-dose, or RotaTeqR or 3-dose
– Remind parents of the importance of keeping
with the date of administration
immunizations on track
– If medical record documentation doesn’t
– Use phone calls, emails, texts or postcards/
indicate whether the 2-dose schedule or 3-dose
letters to help keep parents engaged
schedule was used, it’s assumed that the 3-dose
- Partner with your UnitedHealthcare
regimen was used but only recorded for 2 dates.
representative to see if there are options to
The vaccinations will then not count for HEDIS.
assist those families who frequently have to
• Annual influenza vaccinations, 2 vaccines
cancel due to transportation issues or other
between ages 6 months and 2 years, are an
barriers to care, social determinants of
important part of the recommended childhood
health, etc.
vaccination series
• If applicable, please consider participating in your
– Consider using standing orders, protocols and
state’s immunization registry
resources from immunize.org
• Consider creating a flag in your electronic
• Please record hep B vaccinations given at the
medical record to track children who are due for
hospital in the child’s medical record
immunizations:
• Parental refusal of vaccinations will not remove
– Data analysis has shown that delays in well-child
an eligible member from the denominator
visits tend to push required immunizations
• When possible, please review vaccine status with beyond age 2. Targeted outreach could be
parents and give immunizations at visits other done to these groups of children to ensure they
than only well-child appointments receive the required number of vaccines by
– Consider offering online appointment age 2:
scheduling – Missing only 1 influenza, DtaP or PCV vaccine
– Help ensure safety by dedicating specific and have enough time to complete those
rooms for child immunizations only before their second birthday
– Offer options such as extended hours in – > 6 months old with no history of an
the evening, weekend appointments, walk- influenza vaccine
in vaccination clinics or block scheduling – > 18 months old and missing 1 DtaP, PCV or both
for families to help accommodate working
parents/caregivers and school hours to alleviate
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Childhood Immunization Status (CIS-E) (cont.)
If parents have questions about immunizations, • Immunizations can be accepted as supplemental
information is available at Vaccinate with data, reducing the need for some chart
Confidence | CDC or your state's public health review. Please contact your UnitedHealthcare
department website. The American Academy of representative to discuss clinical data
Pediatrics immunization schedule can be found exchange opportunities.
at aap.org.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Colorectal Cancer Screening (COL-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Yes!
Supplemental
Definition Data Accepted
Percentage of members ages 45–75 who had an appropriate screening
for colorectal cancer. Rates stratified for race and ethnicity.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Star Ratings • Electronic Clinical Data
• Exchange/Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicaid (admin only) • Medicaid select state reporting
• Medicare • NCQA Accreditation
• NCQA Health Plan Ratings
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Colonoscopy
CPT®/CPT II 44388, 44389, 44390, 44391, 44392, 44394, 44401, 44402, 44403, 44404, 44405,
44406, 44407, 44408, 45378, 45379, 45380, 45381, 45382, 45384, 45385, 45386,
45388, 45389, 45390, 45391, 45392, 45393, 45398
HCPCS G0105, G0121
SNOMED 8180007, 12350003, 25732003, 73761001, 174158000, 174185007, 235150006,
302052009, 367535003, 443998000, 444783004, 446521004, 446745002,
447021001, 709421007, 710293001, 711307001, 789778002, 1209098000,
48021000087103, 48031000087101, 174173004, 174179000, 609197007,
771568007, 1217313001, 1304042004, 1304043009, 1304044003, 1304045002,
1304049008, 1304050008
History of colonoscopy
SNOMED 851000119109
When using SNOMED codes to identify history of procedures, the date of the procedure must
be available (do not use the date when the provider documented the procedure as the date of
the procedure).
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Colorectal Cancer Screening (COL-E) (cont.)
Computed tomography (CT) colonography
CPT®/CPT II 74261, 74262, 74263
This service isn’t covered for UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage members.
LOINC 60515-4, 72531-7, 79069-1, 79071-7, 79101-2, 82688-3
SNOMED 418714002
Stool DNA (sDNA) with FIT test
CPT®/CPT II 81528 This code is specific to the Cologuard® FIT-DNA test., 0464U
LOINC 77353-1, 77354-9
SNOMED 708699002
Flexible sigmoidoscopy
CPT®/CPT II 45330, 45331, 45332, 45333, 45334, 45335, 45337, 45338, 45340, 45341, 45342,
45346, 45347, 45349, 45350
Flexible sigmoidoscopy
HCPCS G0104
History of flexible sigmoidoscopy
SNOMED 841000119107
When using SNOMED codes to identify “history of” procedures, the date of the procedure
must be available (do not use the date when the provider documented the procedure as the date of
the procedure).
FOBT
CPT®/CPT II 82270, 82274
HCPCS G0328
LOINC 12503-9, 12504-7, 14563-1, 14564-9, 14565-6, 2335-8, 27396-1, 27401-9, 27925-7,
27926-5, 29771-3, 56490-6, 56491-4, 57905-2, 58453-2, 80372-6, 104738-0
SNOMED 104435004, 441579003, 442067009, 442516004, 442554004, 442563002,
59614000, 167667006, 389076003, 71711000112103
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Colorectal Cancer Screening (COL-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members receiving palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
Members who had colorectal cancer or a total colectomy Any time during the member’s
history through Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
• Members 66 years of age and older as of Dec. 31 of the • Frailty diagnoses must be in the
measurement year with frailty and advanced illness. measurement year and on different
Members must meet both frailty and advanced illness dates of service
criteria to qualify as an exclusion:
• Advanced illness diagnosis must
– Frailty: At least 2 diagnoses of frailty on different dates
be in the measurement year or year
of service during the measurement year. Do not include
prior to the measurement year
claims where the frailty diagnosis was from an
independent lab (POS 81).
– Advanced Illness: Indicated by 1 of the following:
o At least 2 diagnoses of advanced illness on different dates
of service during the measurement year or year prior. Do
not include claims where the advanced illness diagnosis was
from an independent lab (POS 81).
o Dispensed dementia medication Donepezil, Donepezil-
Memantine, Galantamine, Rivastigmine or Memantine
Medicare members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the Any time during the
measurement year who are either: measurement year
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP)
• Living long term in an institution*
*S upplemental and medical record data may not be used for the frailty with advanced illness or institutional
living exclusions.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Colorectal Cancer Screening (COL-E) (cont.)
Important notes
Test, service or procedure to close care opportunity
Measurement year or Colonoscopy
9 years prior
Measurement year or • Flexible sigmoidoscopy
4 years prior • CT colonography
Measurement year or Stool DNA (sDNA) with FIT Test
2 years prior
Measurement year iFOBT, gFOBT, FIT
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Colorectal Cancer Screening (COL-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • In October 2020 CMS announced that for
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to Medicare members, evidence is sufficient
see members with open care opportunities. to cover a blood-based biomarker test as an
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare appropriate colorectal cancer screening test
representative can help. once every 3 years, or at the interval designated
• Patient-reported screenings for colorectal in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
cancer are acceptable and should specify the label if the FDA indicates a specific test
type of test conducted along with the year of interval. However, these tests have not yet been
completion when recording procedures such approved by NCQA to close HEDIS gaps.
as colonoscopy, flexible sigmoidoscopy, stool – At this time, no blood biomarker test for
DNA (sDNA) with FIT test, CT colonography colorectal cancer screening will meet
or FOBT. For instance, colonoscopy was numerator compliance for the COL
completed in 2024. A result is not required if the HEDIS measure
documentation is clearly part of the patient's • Contact your laboratory services provider to
medical/health history, but it must state that procure iFOBT supplies for use in your office
the procedure was completed.
– Physicians, nurse practitioners and physician
• It’s important to submit any codes that reflect assistants can provide the kit to the members
a member’s history of malignancy for colorectal during their routine office visits. Members
cancer, Z85.038 and Z85.048 can then collec the sample at home and send
– If a member is new to the care provider and the specimen and requisition form directly to
the diagnosis is discovered during the history the laboratory services vendor in a
and physical, the code should be submitted post-paid envelope.
with the initial visit claim • USPSTF added CT colonography for colorectal
– If a member isn’t new to the care provider, cancer screening in July 2016. However,
but the member’s chart has documented Medicare hasn’t approved coverage for this
history of the diagnosis , the ICD-10 Diagnosis colorectal cancer screening test, and it’s not a
code should be submitted on any visit claim covered benefit for UnitedHealthcare Medicare
• Member refusal will not make them ineligible Advantage members.
for this measure – If you administer or refer out for this test,
– Please recommend a Flexible sigmoidoscopy, please confirm a member’s eligibility and
stool DNA (sDNA) with FIT test or FOBT if benefit coverage
a member refuses or can’t tolerate • Digital Rectal Exams (DRE) performed in
a colonoscopy the office setting will not meet compliance.
• There are 2 types of acceptable FOBT tests – If the member collected the stool sample
guaiac (gFOBT) and immunochemical (iFOBT) in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions provided with the kit, it will address
any existing gaps.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

EElleeccttrroonnicic C Clinliinciacla Dl aDtaa tSau Sbumbismsiiosns i(oEnC (DESC) DMSe)a sMuereassures Home
Colorectal Cancer Screening (COL-E) (cont.)
• Lab results and procedure codes for language, sexual orientation, gender
colorectal cancer screening can be accepted identity, pronouns, sex assigned at birth
as supplemental data, reducing the need and disability status.
for some chart review. Please contact your – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss structured data exchange program, we
clinical data exchange opportunities. encourage you to include this demographic
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
needs of those we serve and decreasing health will keep personally identifiable information
inequities across the care continuum. This data confidential and won't disclose any information
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity, without your written consent.
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.
UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting
a claim with a code included in this document is not a guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is
contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim
processing requirements, and your participation agreement with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Depression Screening and Follow-Up for
Adolescents and Adults (DSF-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Description
Members ages 12 and older as of Jan. 1 of the measurement year who had:
• Depression screening: Documented result of depression in the measurement year using a
age-appropriate standardized instrument
• Follow-up on positive screening result: Upon documentation of a positive depression screening,
members receive follow-up (medication or treatment) within 30 days of the positive screening
– Note: If a positive screen is followed up with a negative finding on the same day, that will count
toward the numerator
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicare
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a directive
of your billing practice.
Eligible screening instruments with thresholds for positive findings include:
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Depression Screening and Follow-Up for
Adolescents and Adults (DSF-E) (cont.)
Instruments for adolescents Total score LOINC
Positive finding
(≤17 years) codes
Patient Health Questionnaire
44261-6 Total score ≥10
(PHQ-9)®
Patient Health Questionnaire Modified
89204-2 Total score ≥10
for Teens (PHQ-9M)®
Patient Health Questionnaire-2
55758-7 Total score ≥3
(PHQ-2)®
Beck Depression Inventory-Fast
89208-3 Total score ≥8
Screen (BDI-FS)®
Center for Epidemiologic Studies
89205-9 Total score ≥17
Depression Scale—Revised (CESD-R)
Instruments for adolescents Total score LOINC
Positive finding
(≤17 years) codes
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression
99046-5 Total score ≥10
Scale (EPDS)
PROMIS Depression 71965-8 Total score (T Score) ≥60
Total score LOINC
Instruments for adults (18+ years) Positive finding
codes
Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)® 44261-6 Total score ≥10
Patient Health Questionnaire-2
55758-7 Total score ≥3
(PHQ-2)®
Beck Depression Inventory-Fast
89208-3 Total score ≥8
Screen (BDI-FS)®
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) 89209-1 Total score ≥20
Center for Epidemiologic Studies
89205-9 Total score ≥17
Depression Scale—Revised (CESD-R)
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Depression Screening and Follow-Up for
Adolescents and Adults (DSF-E) (cont.)
Total score
Instruments for adults (18+ years) Positive finding
LOINC codes
Duke Anxiety—Depression Scale
90853-3 Total score ≥30
(DUKE-AD)®
Geriatric Depression Scale Short
48545-8 Total score ≥5
Form (GDS)
Geriatric Depression Scale Long
48544-1 Total score ≥10
Form (GDS)
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression
99046-5 Total score ≥10
Scale (EPDS)
My Mood Monitor (M-3)® 71777-7 Total score ≥5
PROMIS Depression 71965-8 Total score (T Score) ≥60
Clinically Useful Depression Outcome
90221-3 Total score ≥31
Scale (CUDOS)
Scenario 1: Follow-up on positive screening result — Outpatient visit with a diagnosis of depression or
other behavioral health diagnosis
Behavioral health encounter
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90845, 90846,
90847,90849, 90853, 90865, 90867, 90868, 90869, 90870, 90875, 90876, 90880,
90887, 99484, 99492, 99493
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0410, G0411, G0511, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031,
H0034, H0035, H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2001, H2010, H2011,
H2012, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016, H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, S0201, S9480,
S9484, S9485
SNOMED 5694008, 10197000, 10997001, 38756009, 45392008, 79094001, 88848003,
90407005, 91310009, 165171009, 165190001, 225337009, 370803007, 372067001,
385721005, 385724002, 385725001, 385726000, 385727009, 385887004,
385889001, 385890005, 401277000, 410223002, 410224008, 410225009,
410226005, 410227001, 410228006, 410229003, 410230008, 410231007,
410232000, 410233005, 410234004, 439141002
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Depression Screening and Follow-Up for
Adolescents and Adults (DSF-E) (cont.)
Behavioral health encounter
UBREV 0900, 0901, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0905, 0907, 0911, 0912, 0913, 0914, 0915, 0916,
0917, 0919
Depression case management encounter
CPT®/CPT II 99366, 99492, 99493, 99494
HCPCS G0512, T1016, T1017, T2022, T2025
SNOMED 182832007, 225333008, 385828006, 386230005, 409022004, 410216003,
410219005, 410328009, 410335001, 410346003, 410347007, 410351009,
410352002, 410353007, 410354001, 410356004, 410360001, 410363004,
410364005, 410366007, 416341003, 416584001, 424490002, 425604002,
737850002
Follow-up visit
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 98966, 98967, 98968, 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981,
99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213, 99214, 99215, 99242,
99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345, 99347, 99348, 99349, 99350,
99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99391, 99392, 99393, 99394,
99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411, 99412, 99421, 99422,
99423, 99441, 99442, 99443, 99457, 99458, 99483, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003,
98004, 98005, 98006, 98007, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012, 98013, 98014,
98015, 98016
HCPCS G0071, G0463, G2010, G2012, G2250, G2251, G2252, T1015
SNOMED 42137004, 50357006, 86013001, 90526000, 108220007, 108221006, 185317003,
185389009, 281036007, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 390906007,
401267002, 406547006, 870191006
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0982, 0983
Encounter for exercise counseling diagnosis
ICD-10-CM Z71.82 (do not include lab claims (claims with POS 81))
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Depression Screening and Follow-Up for
Adolescents and Adults (DSF-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• History of bipolar diagnosis Any time during the member’s
• Diagnosis of depression history, through the end of the
measurement year
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• T o refer your patient to a behavioral health – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical structured
specialist or to request coordination of care, please data exchange program, we encourage you to
call the number on the back of the patient’s health include this demographic data with any structured
plan ID card or search liveandworkwell.com data file or CCD. Your information is confidential.
UnitedHealthcare will keep personally identifiable
• Encourage the use of telehealth when appropriate
information confidential and won't disclose any
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
information without your written consent.
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
• Offer National Suicide Prevention Lifeline "988" for
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
patients to call, text or chat when needed
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
Data Accepted
Definition
Percentage of children newly prescribed attention-deficit/hyperactivity
disorder (ADHD) medication between March 1 of the year prior to the measurement year
through the last day of February in the measurement year and who had at least 3 follow-up
care visits within a 10-month period, one of which was within 30 days of when the first ADHD
medication was dispensed. A new prescription is defined as having no new or refill ADHD
medications 120 days prior to an ADHD medication dispense date.
Two rates are reported:
1. Initiation phase: Percentage of members ages 6–12 with an ambulatory prescription
dispensed for ADHD medication who had 1 follow-up visit with a practitioner with
prescribing authority during the 30-day Initiation Phase. A member must be between ages
6–12 when the first prescription for an ADHD medicine was dispensed.
2. Continuation and maintenance phase: Percentage of members ages 6–12 with an
ambulatory prescription dispensed for ADHD medication, who remained on the medication
for at least 210 days and who, in addition to the visit in the Initiation Phase, had at least 2
follow-up visits with a practitioner on different dates of service within 270 days – 9 months
– after the Initiation Phase ended. A member must be between ages 6–12 when the first
prescription for an ADHD medicine was dispensed.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings Systems (ECDS) reporting
continuation only
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Initiation phase
Scenario 1: Outpatient visit with a practitioner with prescribing authority and with appropriate place of
service code (place of service code must be billed with visit code)
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
03 School 17 Walk-in retail health clinic
05 Indian Health Service 18 Place of employment – worksite
free-standing facility
07 Tribal 638 free-standing facility 19 Off-campus outpatient hospital
09 Prison/correctional facility 20 Urgent care facility
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
Code Location
11 Office 22 On-campus outpatient hospital
12 Home 33 Custodial care facility
13 Assisted living facility 49 Independent clinic
14 Group home 50 Federally qualified health center
15 Mobile unit 71 Public health clinic
16 Temporary lodging 72 Rural health clinic
Initiation phase
Scenario 2: Behavioral health outpatient visit with a practitioner with prescribing authority
Behavioral health visits
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213,
99214, 99215, 99242, 99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345, 99347,
99348, 99349, 99350, 99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99391,
99392, 99393, 99394, 99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411,
99412, 99483, 99492, 99493,99494, 99510, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003, 98004,
98005, 98006, 98007
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0463, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031, H0034,
H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2010, H0211, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016,
H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, T1015, G0560
SNOMED 50357006, 77406008, 84251009, 86013001, 90526000, 185463005, 185464004,
185465003, 209099002, 281036007, 391223001, 391224007, 391225008,
391233009, 391237005, 391239008, 391242002, 391257009, 391260002,
391261003, 439740005, 866149003, 3391000175108, 444971000124105,
456201000124103
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0515, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0900, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0911, 0914, 0915, 0916, 0917, 0919, 0982, 0983
Scenario 3: Intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization with a practitioner with
prescribing authority and with appropriate place of service code (place of service code must be
billed with visit code)
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233, 99238,
99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
52 Psychiatric facility – partial hospitalization
Initiation Phase
Scenario 4: A health and behavior assessment/intervention with a practitioner with
prescribing authority
A health and behavior assessment/intervention
CPT®/CPT II 96156, 96158, 96159, 96164, 96165, 96167, 96168, 96170, 96171
Scenario 5: Intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization with a practitioner with
prescribing authority
Partial hospitalization/intensive outpatient visits
HCPCS G0410, G0411, H0035, H2001, H2012, S0201, S9480, S9484, S9485
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
Partial hospitalization/intensive outpatient visits
SNOMED 7133001, 305345009, 305346005, 305347001, 391038005, 391042008,
391043003, 391046006, 391047002, 391048007, 391054008, 391055009,
391056005, 391133003, 391150001, 391151002, 391152009, 391153004,
391170007, 391185001, 391186000, 391187009, 391188004, 391191004,
391192006, 391194007, 391195008, 391207001, 391208006, 391209003,
391210008, 391211007, 391228005, 391229002, 391232004, 391252003,
391254002, 391255001, 391256000
UBREV 0905, 0907, 0912, 0913
Scenario 6: Community mental health center visit with a practitioner with prescribing authority and
with appropriate place of service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233,
99238, 99239, 99252, 99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
53 Community mental health center
Scenario 7: Telehealth With a Practitioner With Prescribing Authority and With Appropriate Place of
service code
Visit setting unspecified
CPT®/ 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90840, 90845, 90847,
CPT II 90849, 90853, 90875, 90876, 99221, 99222, 99223, 99231, 99232, 99233, 99238, 99239, 99252,
99253, 99254, 99255
AND
Place of service code
Code Location
02 Telehealth provided other than in patient’s home
10 Telehealth provided in patient’s home
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
Scenario 8: Telephone with a practitioner with prescribing authority
Telephone visits
CPT®/CPT II 98966, 98967, 98968, 99441, 99442, 99443, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012,
98013, 98014, 98015
SNOMED 185317003, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 401267002
Continuation phase: Initiation phase scenarios 1-9 in addition to the following (only 1 of 2 follow-up
visits during days 31-300 may be e-visit or virtual check-in)
Scenario 9: E-visit or virtual check-in with a practitioner with prescribing authority
Online assessment (e-visit/virtual check-in) *Only 1 of the 2 visits for continuation may be an e-visit
or virtual check-in
CPT®/CPT II 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981, 99421, 99422, 99423, 99457, 99458, 98016
HCPCS G0071, G2010, G2012, G2250, G2251, G2252
Medications
The following ADHD medications dispensed during the 12-month window starting March 1 of the year
prior to the measurement year and ending the last calendar day of February of the measurement year
identify members for this measure.
Drug category Medications
CNS stimulants • Dexmethylphenidate • Methylphenidate
• Dextroamphetamine • Methamphetamine
• Lisdexamfetamine
Alpha-2 receptor • Clonidine • Guanfacine
agonists
Miscellaneous ADHD • Atomoxetine
medications • Viloxazine
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Narcolepsy Any time during a member’s
history through Dec. 31 of the
measurement year
Members who had an acute inpatient encounter with principal During the 30 days after the earliest
diagnosis of mental, behavioral or neurodevelopmental disorder prescription dispensing date
or those diagnoses on the discharge claim
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
Important notes
Medical record detail including,
but not limited to
• Initiation phase – When prescribing ADHD medication • Medication list
for the first time: • Progress notes
– Schedule a member’s follow-up appointment within
21–28 days after they receive their initial prescription
to assess effectiveness and address any side effects
– Write the initial prescription for the number of days
until the follow-up appointment to increase the
likelihood that a patient will come to the visit
– Use screening tools such as the Vanderbilt
Assessment Scale to assist with diagnosing ADHD
• Continuation and maintenance phase – When
providing ongoing care:
– Schedule at least 2 more follow-up appointments
within the next 9 months to help ensure the member
is stabilized on an appropriate dose
– An e-visit or virtual check-in visit is eligible for 1 visit
toward the continuation and maintenance phase
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Follow-Up Care for Children Prescribed
ADHD Medication (ADD-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Continue to monitor patient with 2 or more • At each office visit, talk with members
visits in the next 9 months about following your treatment plan and/
• Encourage the use of telehealth appointments or barriers to taking their medications, and
when appropriate encourage adherence
• Screening tools such as the National Institute • ADHD follow-up visits can be accepted as
for Children’s Health Quality (NICHQ) Vanderbilt supplemental data. Please contact your
Assessment Scale can help with UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
diagnosing ADHD clinical data exchange opportunities.
• When prescribing ADHD medication for the first • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
time, make sure all members are scheduled for a understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
follow-up visit within 30 days needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
• Write the initial prescription for the number of
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
days until a member’s follow-up visit to increase
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
the likelihood they’ll come to the appointment
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
• Schedule at least 3 follow-up visits at the time a
disability status.
member’s diagnosed and gets
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
their prescription
structured data exchange program, we
– The first appointment should be 21 to 28 days
encourage you to include this demographic
after they receive their initial prescription so
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
you can assess the medication’s effectiveness
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
and address any side effects
will keep personally identifiable information
– Schedule at least 2 or more follow-up
confidential and won't disclose any
appointments within the next 9 months to
information without your written consent.
confirm the member’s stable and taking the
appropriate dose
• Review members’ history of prescription refill
patterns and reinforce education and reminders
to take their medication as prescribed
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Utilization of the PHQ-9 to Monitor Depression
Symptoms for Adolescents and Adults (DMS-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Members ages 12 and older with a diagnosis of major depression or dysthymia, who had an
outpatient encounter with a PHQ-9 score present in their record in the same assessment period
as the encounter.
Three assessment periods include:
• Assessment period 1: Jan.1—April 30
• Assessment period 2: May 1—Aug. 31
• Assessment period 3: Sept. 1—Dec. 31
This measure is episode based and not member based. Members may have an eligible
encounter in all 3 assessment periods.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicare
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Utilization of PHQ-9 period 1, 2 or 3
LOINC 44261-6, 89204-2, 44261-6
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Utilization of the PHQ-9 to Monitor Depression
Symptoms for Adolescents and Adults (DMS-E)
(cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• History of bipolar disorder, personality disorder, psychotic Any time during the member’s
disorder or pervasive developmental disorder hsitory through the end of the
measurment year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure Medical record detail
to close care opportunity including, but not limited to
Use age appropriate PHQ-9 The PHQ-9 can be conducted • This measure is episode
assessments: using telehealth, telephone or a based and not
• PHQ-9: ages 12 years web-based portal/application member based
and older
• PHQ-9 Modified for
Teens: ages 12-17
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Utilization of the PHQ-9 to Monitor Depression
Symptoms for Adolescents and Adults (DMS-E)
(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• To refer your patient to a behavioral health – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
specialist or to request coordination of structured data exchange program, we
care, please call the number on the back of encourage you to include this demographic
the patient’s health plan ID card or search data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
liveandworkwell.com information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
will keep personally identifiable information
• Encourage the use of telehealth when appropriate
confidential and won't disclose any information
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
without your written consent.
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
• Offer National Suicide Prevention Lifeline "988"
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
for patients to call, text or chat when needed
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Depression Remission or Response for
Adolescents and Adults (DRR-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Members ages 12 and older with a diagnosis of depression and an elevated PHQ-9 score, who
had evidence of response or remission within 4-8 months of the elevated score.
• Follow-up PHQ-9: The percentage of members who have a follow-up PHQ-9 score documented
within 4-8 months after the initial elevated PHQ-9 score
• Depression remission: The percentage of members who achieved remission within 4-8 months
after the initial elevated PHQ-9 score
• Depression response: The percentage of members who showed response within
4-8 months after the initial elevated PHQ-9 score
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicare
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Scenario 1:
Depression follow-up: A PHQ-9 total score in the member's record during the depression
follow-up period
Scenario 2:
Depression remission: Members who demonstrate remission of depression symptoms with the most
recent PHQ-9 total score of <5 during the depression period
Scenario 3:
Depression response: Members with a response to treatment for depression, as demonstrated by the
most recent PHQ-9 total score of at least 50% lower than the PHQ-9 score associated with the IESD,
documented during the depression follow-up period
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

EElleeccttrroonnicic C Clinliinciacla Dl aDtaa tSau Sbumbismsiiosns i(oEnC (DESC) DMSe)a sMuereassures Home
Depression Remission or Response for
Adolescents and Adults (DRR-E) (cont.)
PHQ-9 total score
LOINC 44261-6, 89204-2, 44261-6
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• History of bipolar disorder, personality disorder, psychotic Any time during the
disorder or pervasive developmental disorder member’s hsitory
through the end of the
measurment year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure to close care opportunity
Use age appropriate The PHQ-9 can be conducted using telehealth, telephone or a
PHQ-9 assessments: web-based portal/application
• PHQ-9: ages 12 years
and older
• PHQ-9 Modified for
Teens: ages 12-17
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Depression Remission or Response for
Adolescents and Adults (DRR-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• To refer your patient to a behavioral health – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
specialist or to request coordination of structured data exchange program, we
care, please call the number on the back of encourage you to include this demographic
the patient’s health plan ID card or search data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
liveandworkwell.com information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
will keep personally identifiable information
• Encourage the use of telehealth
confidential and won't disclose any information
when appropriate
without your written consent.
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
• Offer National Suicide Prevention Lifeline "988"
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
for patients to call, text or chat when needed
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
disability status.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Immunizations for Adolescents (IMA-E)
New for 2025
Added
Yes!
• Pentavalent meningococcal vaccine was added to the
meningococcal gap closure criteria Supplemental
Data Accepted
Updated
• IMA will only be referred to as IMA-E and will be an electronic
measure only
• Expanded meningococcal age range
Definition
Percentage of adolescents age 13 who had 1 dose of meningococcal vaccine, 1 tetanus, diphtheria toxoids
and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine, and at least 2 doses of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine by their
13th birthday.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Rating System • Electronic Clinical Data
• Exchange/Marketplace • NCQA Health Plan Ratings Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicaid (Combination 2)
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
HPV vaccine
Number of doses: 2
Special circumstances
• Dose must be administered on or between the ninth and 13th birthdays
• There must be at least 146 days between the first and second dose of HPV vaccine
• If 3 HPV vaccines were given, they must be on different dates of service
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Immunizations for Adolescents
(IMA-E) (cont.)
HPV Vaccine
Number of doses: 2
Special Circumstances
• Dose must be administered on or between the ninth and 13th birthdays.
• There must be at least 146 days between the first and second dose of HPV vaccine.
• If 3 HPV vaccines were given, they must be on different dates of service.
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications.
CPT®/CPT II 90649, 90650, 90651
CVX codes 62, 118, 137, 165
SNOMED 428741008, 428931000, 429396009, 717953009, 724332002, 734152003,
761841000, 1209198003
Anaphylaxis due to the human papillomavirus vaccine on or before the child’s 13th birthday
SNOMED 428241000124101
Meningococcal conjugate vaccine
Number of doses: 1
Special circumstances
• Dose must be administered on or between the 10th and 13th birthdays.
• If applicable, anaphylaxis due to vaccine and the date it occurred must be documented in the
medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications.
CPT®/CPT II 90619, 90623, 90733, 90734
CVX codes 32, 108, 114, 136, 147, 167, 203, 316
SNOMED 871874000, 428271000124109, 16298691000119102
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Immunizations for Adolescents
(IMA-E) (cont.)
Anaphylaxis due to the meningococcal vaccine on or before the child’s 13th birthday
SNOMED 428301000124106
Tdap vaccine
Number of doses: 1
Special circumstances
• Dose must be administered on or between the 10th and 13th birthdays
• If applicable, encephalitis or anaphylaxis due to the vaccine and the date it occurred must be
documented in the medical record to count toward the numerator using the hybrid specifications
CPT®/CPT II 90715
CVX codes 115
SNOMED 390846000, 412755006, 412756007, 412757003, 571571000119105,
428251000124104
Anaphylaxis due to tetanus, diphtheria or pertussis vaccine on or before the child’s 13th birthday
SNOMED 428281000124107, 428291000124105
Encephalitis due to the tetanus, diphtheria or pertussis vaccine on or before the child’s 13th birthday
SNOMED 192710009, 192711008, 192712001
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Immunizations for Adolescents
(IMA-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Medical record detail including,
but not limited to
A member’s medical record must include: • History and physical
• A note with the name of the specific antigen and the date • Immunization record
the vaccine was administered • Lab results
• An immunization record from an authorized health care • Problem list
provider or agency – for example, a registry – including the
• Progress notes
name of the specific antigen and the date the vaccine
was administered
For meningococcal conjugate, meningococcal
recombinant – serogroup B (MenB) – will not meet compliance.
Documentation that a member is up to date with all
immunizations, but doesn’t include a list of the immunizations
and dates they were administered, will not meet compliance.
Documentation of physician orders, CPT codes or billing
charges will not meet compliance.
For documented history of anaphylaxis or encephalitis, there
must be a note indicating the date of the event, which must
have occurred by the member’s 13th birthday.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Immunizations for Adolescents
(IMA-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity barriers to care, social determinants
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to of health, etc.
see members with open care opportunities. • If applicable, please consider participating in
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare your state’s immunization registry
representative can help. • If parents have questions about immunizations,
• Parental refusal of vaccinations will not remove information is available at Vaccinate with
an eligible member from the denominator Confidence | CDC or your state's public health
• When possible, please review vaccine status department website. The American Academy of
with parents and give immunizations at visits Pediatrics immunization schedule can be found
other than only well-child appointments at aap.org.
– Consider using standing orders, protocols and • The American Cancer Society offers
resources from immunize.org information about the HPV vaccine to help
– Consider offering online prevent cervical cancer at cancer.org
appointment scheduling • Immunizations can be accepted as
– Help ensure safety by dedicating specific supplemental data, reducing the need for
rooms for child immunizations only some chart review. Please contact your
– Offer options such as extended hours in UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
the evening, weekend appointments, walk- clinical data exchange opportunities.
in vaccination clinics or block scheduling • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
for families to help accommodate working understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
parents/caregivers and school hours to needs of those we serve and decreasing health
alleviate the burden of managing inequities across the care continuum. This data
multiple appointments and competing can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
time commitments language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
– Consider setting up a drive-up pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
immunization site disability status.
– Schedule appointments for your patient’s – As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
next vaccination before they leave your office structured data exchange program, we
– Remind parents of the importance of encourage you to include this demographic
keeping immunizations on track data with any structured data file or
– Us e phone calls, emails, texts or postcards CCD. Your information is confidential.
letters to help keep parents engaged UnitedHealthcare will keep personally
– Partner with your UnitedHealthcare identifiable information confidential and
representative to see if there are options to won't disclose any information without your
assist those families who frequently have to written consent.
cancel due to transportation issues or other
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Metabolic Monitoring for Children and Adolescents
on Antipsychotics (APM-E)
New for 2025
Yes!
• No applicable changes for this measure
Supplemental
Data Accepted
Definition
Percentage of children and adolescents ages 1–17 who had 2 or more
antipsychotic prescriptions
and had metabolic testing.
Three rates are reported:
• The percentage of children and adolescents on antipsychotics who received blood glucose testing
• The percentage of children and adolescents on antipsychotics who received cholesterol testing
• The percentage of children and adolescents on antipsychotics who received blood glucose and
cholesterol testing
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Accreditation • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid • NCQA Health Plan Ratings Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Select State Medicaid
reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Glucose test
CPT®/CPT II 80047, 80048, 80050, 80053, 80069, 82947, 82950, 82951
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

EElleeccttrroonnicic C Clinliinciacla Dl aDtaa tSau Sbumbismsiiosns i(oEnC (DESC) DMSe)a sMuereassures Home
Metabolic Monitoring for Children and Adolescents
on Antipsychotics (APM-E) (cont.)
Glucose test
LOINC 10450-5, 1492-8, 1494-4, 1496-9, 1499-3, 1501-6, 1504-0, 1507-3, 1514-9, 1518-
0, 1530-5, 1533-9, 1554-5, 1557-8, 1558-6, 17865-7, 20436-2, 20437-0, 20438-8,
20440-4, 2345-7, 26554-6, 41024-1, 49134-0, 6749-6, 9375-7
SNOMED 22569008, 33747003, 52302001, 72191006, 73128004, 88856000, 104686004,
166890005, 166891009, 166892002, 166921001, 166922008, 167086002,
167087006, 167088001, 167095005, 167096006, 167097002, 250417005,
271061004, 271062006, 271063001, 271064007, 271065008, 275810004,
302788006, 302789003, 308113006, 313474007, 313545000, 313546004,
313624000, 313626003, 313627007, 313628002, 313630000, 313631001,
313697000, 313698005, 313810002, 412928005, 440576000, 442545002,
443780009, 444008003, 444127006, 444780001, 1179458001, 1259140002
HbA1c test
CPT®/CPT II 83036, 83037, 3044F, 3046F, 3051F, 3052F
LOINC 17855-8, 17856-6, 4548-4, 4549-2, 96595-4
SNOMED 43396009, 313835008, 165679005, 451061000124104
Cholesterol test other than LDL
CPT®/CPT II 82465, 83718, 83722, 84478
LOINC 2085-9, 2093-3, 2571-8, 3043-7, 9830-1
SNOMED 14740000, 28036006, 77068002, 104583003, 104584009, 104586006, 104784006,
104990004, 104991000, 121868005, 166830008, 166832000, 166838001,
166839009, 166848004, 166849007, 166850007, 167072001, 167073006,
167082000, 167083005, 167084004, 259557002, 271245006, 275972003,
314035000, 315017003, 365793008, 365794002, 365795001, 365796000,
390956002, 412808005, 412827004, 439953004, 443915001, 707122004,
707123009, 1162800007, 1172655006, 1172656007, 67991000119104
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Metabolic Monitoring for Children and Adolescents
on Antipsychotics (APM-E) (cont.)
LDL-C test
CPT®/CPT II 80061, 83700, 83701, 83704, 83721, 3048F, 3049F, 3050F
LOINC 12773-8, 13457-7, 18261-8, 18262-6, 2089-1, 49132-4, 55440-2, 96259-7
SNOMED 113079009, 166833005, 166840006, 166841005, 167074000, 167075004,
314036004
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Medical record detail including, but not
limited to
• A member must have metabolic screening • Glucose test or HbA1c test
tests that measure both blood glucose and
and cholesterol
• Cholesterol lab test
• Individual tests to measure cholesterol and
• LDL or LDL-C lab test
blood glucose levels can be done on the
same or different dates of service
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Metabolic Monitoring for Children and Adolescents
on Antipsychotics (APM-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• This measure focuses on appropriate • Test blood glucose and cholesterol at a
monitoring for children prescribed member’s annual checkup or school physical to
antipsychotic medications reduce additional visits
• Schedule an annual glucose or HbA1c and • Monitor children on antipsychotic medications
LDL-C or other cholesterol test to help to avoid metabolic health complications
• Assist caregiver in understanding the such as weight gain and diabetes
importance of annual screening • Encouraging shared decision-making by
• Behavioral health screening tools and resources educating members and caregivers about
at providerexpress.com the increased risk of metabolic health
complications from antipsychotic medications
• Patient education information at
and importance of screening blood glucose and
liveandworkwell.com > Browse as a guest with
cholesterol levels
company access code > Use access code
“clinician” > Explore and Learn • Offer National Suicide Prevention Lifeline for
patient to call, text or chat 988 when needed
• The use of CPT® Category II codes helps
UnitedHealthcare identify clinical outcomes • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
such as HbA1c level. It can also reduce the need understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
for some chart review. needs of those we serve and decreasing health
inequities across the care continuum. This data
• CPT II Codes that are on a lab claim (POS 81)
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
or include a modifier do not count toward
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
numerator compliance
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
• Lab tests visits can be accepted as
disability status.
supplemental data. Please contact your
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
UnitedHealthcare representative to discuss
structured data exchange program, we
clinical data exchange opportunities.
encourage you to include this demographic
• Antipsychotic medications can elevate a
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
child’s risk for developing serious metabolic
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
health complications associated with poor
will keep personally identifiable information
cardiometabolic outcomes in adulthood.
confidential and won't disclose any
Given these risks and the potential lifelong
information without your written consent.
consequences, metabolic monitoring
(blood glucose and cholesterol testing) is an
important component of ensuring appropriate
management of children and adolescents on
antipsychotic medications.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Immunization Status (PRS-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Members who had a live birth in the measurement period (Jan. 1-Dec. 31 of the measurement year)
and who have had the following vaccinations in the recommended time frame:
• 1 influenza vaccine
• 1 Td/Tdap vaccine
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • NCQA Health Plan Ratings • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid • Select state reporting Systems (ECDS) reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close HEDIS numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Influenza vaccine
• Number of doses: 1
• Vaccine administered on or between July 1 of the year prior to measurement year and
the delivery date
• Anaphylaxis due to the influenza vaccine will count toward compliance
CPT®/CPT II 90630, 90653, 90654, 90656, 90658, 90661, 90662, 90673, 90674, 90682, 90686,
90688, 90689, 90694, 90756
CVX 88, 135, 140, 141, 144, 150, 153, 155, 158, 166, 168, 171, 185, 186, 197, 205
SNOMED 471361000124100, 86198006
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Immunization Status (PRS-E) (cont.)
Tdap
• Vaccine administered during the pregnancy (including delivery date)
• Anaphylaxis or encephalitis due to the diphtheria, tetanus or pertussis vaccine on or
before the delivery date will count toward compliance
CPT®/CPT II 90715
SNOMED 192710009, 192711008, 192712001, 390846000, 412755006, 412756007,
412757003, 428251000124104, 428281000124107, 428291000124105,
571571000119105
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services
Any time during the
• Members who died
measurement year
• Deliveries that occurred at less than 37 weeks gestation
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Immunization Status (PRS-E) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Standing orders can help your office staff be • Place images and information about
part of the vaccination process vaccinations throughout your office, including
– Offer vaccine information sheets (VIS) to that they may be covered by the patient’s health
read while patients wait plan or low cost, on:
– Medical assistants can verify interest and – Posters
obtain the vaccine to be administered – Placards
– Train staff to answer questions, administer – Stickers on charts
and document in the patient’s chart • Sharing member demographic data is critical to
– Consider having front office staff offer VISs in understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
the patient’s preferred language needs of those we serve and decreasing health
– Immunize.org offers numerous translations inequities across the care continuum. This data
that can be selected and printed, as needed can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
• Have office staff wear pins that show they’ve
pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
been vaccinated to help prompt patients to
disability status.
ask questions
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical
– Example: A ‘Got my flu shot’ button may
structured data exchange program, we
prompt someone to ask if flu shots
encourage you to include this demographic
are available
data with any structured data file or CCD. Your
• Stock vaccines in your office to make the visit a
information is confidential. UnitedHealthcare
single stop for the patient and leverage trained
will keep personally identifiable information
staff to administer as part of their visit
confidential and won't disclose any
• Consider which vaccines are most commonly
information without your written consent.
needed based on your community
• Have a quick reference where patients can get
vaccines not stocked at your office
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Postpartum Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PDS-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Definition
Members who had a live birth from Sept. 8 of the year prior to the measurement period through
Sept. 7 of the measurement period and who received the following during their postpartum period
(7–84 days after the delivery):
• Depression screening: Clinical depression screening using a standardized instrument
Follow-up on positive screening result: Upon documentation of a positive depression screening,
members receive follow-up within 30 days of the positive screening
– Note: If a positive screen is followed up with a negative finding on the same day, that will
count toward the numerator. Screening must have been done using a full-length instrument
(e.g., PHQ-9, PROMIS Depression)
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid Systems (ECDS) reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a directive
of your billing practice.
Depression Screening: Clinical depression screening using a standardized instrument
Eligible screening instruments with thresholds for positive findings include:
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Postpartum Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PDS-E) (cont.)
Instruments for adolescents Total score LOINC
Positive finding
(≤17 years) codes
Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)® 44261-6 Total score ≥10
Patient Health Questionnaire Modified for
89204-2 Total score ≥10
Teens (PHQ-9M)®
Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2)® 55758-7 Total score ≥3
Beck Depression Inventory-Fast Screen
89208-3 Total score ≥8
(BDI-FS)®
Center for Epidemiologic Studies
89205-9 Total score ≥17
Depression Scale—Revised (CESD-R)
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale
99046-5 Total score ≥10
(EPDS)
PROMIS Depression 71965-8 Total score (T Score) ≥60
Instruments for adults (18+ years) Total score LOINC
Positive finding
codes
Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)® 44261-6 Total score ≥10
Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2)® 55758-7 Total score ≥3
Beck Depression Inventory-Fast
89208-3 Total score ≥8
Screen (BDI-FS)®
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) 89209-1 Total score ≥20
Center for Epidemiologic Studies
89205-9 Total score ≥17
Depression Scale—Revised (CESD-R)
Duke Anxiety-Depression Scale
90853-3 Total score ≥30
(DUKE-AD)®
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale
99046-5 Total score ≥10
(EPDS)
My Mood Monitor (M-3)® 71777-7 Total score ≥5
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Postpartum Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PDS-E) (cont.)
Instruments for adults (18+ years) Total score LOINC
Positive finding
codes
PROMIS Depression 71965-8 Total score (T Score) ≥60
Clinically Useful Depression Outcome
90221-3 Total score ≥31
Scale (CUDOS)
Scenario 1: Follow-Up on Positive Screening Result — Outpatient visit with a diagnosis of depression
or other behavioral health diagnosis
Behavioral health encounter
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90845, 90846,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90865, 90867, 90868, 90869, 90870, 90875, 90876, 90880,
90887, 99484, 99492, 99493
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0410, G0411, G0511, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031,
H0034, H0035, H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2001, H2010, H2011,
H2012, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016, H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, S0201, S9480,
S9484, S9485
SNOMED 5694008, 10197000, 10997001, 38756009, 45392008, 79094001, 88848003,
90407005, 91310009, 165171009, 165190001, 225337009, 370803007, 372067001,
385721005, 385724002, 385725001, 385726000, 385727009, 385887004,
385889001, 385890005, 401277000, 410223002, 410224008, 410225009,
410226005, 410227001, 410228006, 410229003, 410230008, 410231007,
410232000, 410233005, 410234004, 439141002
UBREV 0900, 0901, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0905, 0907, 0911, 0912, 0913, 0914, 0915, 0916,
0917, 0919
Depression case management encounter
CPT®/CPT II 99366, 99492, 99493, 99494
HCPCS G0512, T1016, T1017, T2022, T2023
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Postpartum Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PDS-E) (cont.)
Depression case management encounter
SNOMED 182832007, 225333008, 385828006, 386230005, 409022004, 410216003,
410219005, 410328009, 410335001, 410346003, 410347007, 410351009,
410352002, 410353007, 410354001, 410356004, 410360001, 410363004,
410364005, 410366007, 416341003, 416584001, 424490002, 425604002,
737850002, 621561000124106, 661051000124109, 662081000124106,
662541000124107, 842901000000108
Follow-up visit
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 98966, 98967, 98968, 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981,
99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213, 99214, 99215, 99242,
99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345, 99347, 99348, 99349, 99350,
99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99391, 99392, 99393, 99394,
99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411, 99412, 99421, 99422,
99423, 99441, 99442, 99443, 99457, 99458, 99483, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003,
98004, 98005, 98006, 98007, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012, 98013, 98014,
98015, 98016
HCPCS G0071, G0463, G2010, G2012, G2250, G2251, G2252, T1015
SNOMED 42137004, 50357006, 86013001, 90526000, 108220007, 108221006, 185317003,
185389009, 281036007, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 390906007,
401267002, 406547006,870191006
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529, 0982,
0983
Encounter for exercise counseling diagnosis
ICD-10-CM Z71.82 (do not include lab claims (claims with POS 81))
Scenario 2. Dispensed an antidepression medication
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Postpartum Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PDS-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
Important notes
Test, service or procedure to close care opportunity
Use age appropriate PHQ-9 The PHQ-9 can be conducted using telehealth, telephone or
assessments: a web-based portal/application
• PHQ-9: Ages 12 years
and older
• PHQ-9 modified for
teens ages 12-17
Tips and best practices:
• To refer your patient to a behavioral health language, sexual orientation, gender identity,
specialist or to request coordination of care, please pronouns, sex assigned at birth and
call the number on the back of the patient’s health disability status.
plan ID card or search liveandworkwell.com
– As part of the UnitedHealthcare clinical structured
• Encourage the use of telehealth when appropriate data exchange program, we encourage you to
include this demographic data with any structured
• Sharing member demographic data is critical to
data file or CCD. Your information is confidential.
understanding the cultural, linguistic and social
UnitedHealthcare will keep personally identifiable
needs of those we serve and decreasing health
information confidential and won't disclose any
inequities across the care continuum. This data
information without your written consent.
can include, but is not limited to, race, ethnicity,
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PND-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Members who had a live birth in the measurement year and who received the following during their
pregnancy in the measurement period (Jan. 1 to Dec. 31 of the measurement year)
• Depression Screening: Clinical depression screening using a standardized instrument
• Follow-Up on Positive Screening Result: Upon documentation of a positive depression screening,
members receive follow-up within 30 days of the positive screening
– Note: If a positive screen is followed up with a negative finding on the same day, that will count
toward the numerator. Screening must have been done using a full-length instrument (e.g., PHQ-9,
PROMIS Depression)
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • Select state reporting • Electronic Clinical Data
• Medicaid Systems (ECDS) reporting
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a directive
of your billing practice.
Depression Screening: Clinical depression screening using a standardized instrument
Eligible screening instruments with thresholds for positive findings include:
Instruments for adolescents Total score Positive finding
(≤17 years) LOINC codes
Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)® 44261-6 Total score ≥10
Patient Health Questionnaire Modified for
89204-2 Total score ≥10
Teens (PHQ- 9M)®
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PND-E) (cont.)
Instruments for adolescents Total score Positive finding
(≤17 years) LOINC codes
Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2)® 55758-7 Total score ≥3
Beck Depression Inventory—Fast
89208-3 Total score ≥8
Screen (BDI-FS)®
Center for Epidemiologic Studies
89205-9 Total score ≥17
Depression Scale—Revised (CESD-R)
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression
99046-5 Total score ≥10
Scale (EPDS)
PROMIS Depression 71965-8 Total score (T Score) ≥60
Total score
Instruments for adults (18+ years) Positive finding
LOINC codes
Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)® 44261-6 Total score ≥10
Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2)® 55758-7 Total score ≥3
Beck Depression Inventory—Fast Screen
89208-3 Total score ≥8
(BDI-FS)®
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) 89209-1 Total score ≥20
Center for Epidemiologic Studies
89205-9 Total score ≥17
Depression Scale—Revised (CESD-R)
Duke Anxiety-Depression Scale
90853-3 Total score ≥30
(DUKE-AD)®
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression
99046-5 Total score ≥10
Scale (EPDS)
My Mood Monitor (M-3)® 71777-7 Total score ≥5
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PND-E) (cont.)
Total score
Instruments for adults (18+ years) Positive finding
LOINC codes
PROMIS Depression 71965-8 Total score (T Score) ≥60
Clinically Useful Depression Outcome
90221-3 Total score ≥31
Scale (CUDOS)
Scenario 1: Follow up on positive screening result — Outpatient visit with a diagnosis of depression or
other behavioral health diagnosis
Behavioral health encounter
CPT®/CPT II 90791, 90792, 90832, 90833, 90834, 90836, 90837, 90838, 90839, 90845, 90846,
90847, 90849, 90853, 90865, 90867, 90868, 90869, 90870, 90875, 90876, 90880,
90887, 99484, 99492, 99493
HCPCS G0155, G0176, G0177, G0409, G0410, G0411, G0511, G0512, H0002, H0004, H0031,
H0034, H0035, H0036, H0037, H0039, H0040, H2000, H2001, H2010, H2011,
H2012, H2013, H2014, H2015, H2016, H2017, H2018, H2019, H2020, S0201, S9480,
S9484, S9485
SNOMED 5694008, 10197000, 10997001, 38756009, 45392008, 79094001, 88848003,
90407005, 91310009, 165171009, 165190001, 225337009, 370803007, 372067001,
385721005, 385724002, 385725001, 385726000, 385727009, 385887004,
385889001, 385890005, 401277000, 410223002, 410224008, 410225009,
410226005, 410227001, 410228006, 410229003, 410230008, 410231007,
410232000, 410233005, 410234004, 439141002
UBREV 0900, 0901, 0902, 0903, 0904, 0905, 0907, 0911, 0912, 0913, 0914, 0915, 0916,
0917, 0919
Depression case management encounter
CPT®/CPT II 99366, 99492, 99493, 99494
HCPCS G0512, T1016, T1017, T2022, T2023
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PND-E) (cont.)
Depression Case Management Encounter
SNOMED 182832007, 225333008, 385828006, 386230005, 409022004, 410216003,
410219005, 410328009, 410335001, 410346003, 410347007, 410351009,
410352002, 410353007, 410354001, 410356004, 410360001, 410363004,
410364005, 410366007, 416341003, 416584001, 424490002, 425604002,
737850002, 621561000124106, 661051000124109, 662081000124106,
662541000124107, 842901000000108
Follow-up visit
CPT®/CPT II 98960, 98961, 98962, 98966, 98967, 98968, 98970, 98971, 98972, 98980, 98981,
99078, 99202, 99203, 99204, 99205, 99211, 99212, 99213, 99214, 99215, 99242,
99243, 99244, 99245, 99341, 99342, 99344, 99345, 99347, 99348, 99349, 99350,
99381, 99382, 99383, 99384, 99385, 99386, 99387, 99391, 99392, 99393, 99394,
99395, 99396, 99397, 99401, 99402, 99403, 99404, 99411, 99412, 99421, 99422,
99423, 99441, 99442, 99443, 99457, 99458, 99483, 98000, 98001, 98002, 98003,
98004, 98005, 98006, 98007, 98008, 98009, 98010, 98011, 98012, 98013, 98014,
98015, 98016
HCPCS G0071, G0463, G2010, G2012, G2250, G2251, G2252, T1015
SNOMED 42137004, 50357006, 86013001, 90526000, 108220007, 108221006, 185317003,
185389009, 281036007, 314849005, 386472008, 386473003, 390906007,
401267002, 406547006, 870191006
UBREV 0510, 0513, 0516, 0517, 0519, 0520, 0521, 0522, 0523, 0526, 0527, 0528, 0529,
0982, 0983
Encounter for exercise counseling diagnosis
ICD-10-CM Z71.82 (do not include lab claims (claims with POS 81))
Scenario 2: Dispensed an antidepression medication
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Prenatal Depression Screening and
Follow-Up (PND-E) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
• Deliveries that occurred at less than 37 weeks gestation
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Social Need Screening and Intervention (SNS-E)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Percentage of members who were screened, using pre-specified instruments, at least once
during the measurement period for unmet food, housing and transportation needs, and
received a corresponding intervention if screened positive.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Commercial • CMS Quality Reporting System • Claims/Encounter Data
• Exchange/ Marketplace • Electronic Clinical Data
Systems (ECDS) reporting
• Medicaid
• Medicare
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care for the screening part of the measure;
they’re not intended to be a directive of your billing practice.
Food screening
LOINC 88122-7, 88123-5, 95251-5, 88124-3, 93031-3, 95400-8, 95399-2, 96434-6,
LA30125-1, LA30985-8, LA30986-6, 95264-8, 93668-2, LA28397-0, LA6729-3,
LA32-8, LA33-6, LA19952-3
Housing screening
LONIC 71802-3, 93033-9, 93669-0, 96441-1, 96778-6, 98976-4, 98977-2, 98978-0,
99134-9, 99135-6, 99550-6, LA19952-3, LA28397-0, LA28580-1, LA30024-6,
LA30026-1, LA30027-9, LA30190-5, LA31994-9, LA31995-6, LA31996-4, LA31997-
2, LA31998-0, LA31999-8, LA32000-4, LA32001-2, LA32691-0, LA32693-6,
LA32694-4, LA32695-1, LA32696-9, LA32-8, LA33-6, LA6729-3
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Social Need Screening and Intervention (SNS-E)
(cont.)
Transportation screening
LONIC 89569-8, 92358-1, 93030-5, 93671-6, 99553-0, 99594-4, 101351-5, LA33-6,
LA29232-8, LA29233-6, LA29234-4, LA30024-6, LA30026-1, LA30027-9,
LA30133-5, LA30134-3, LA33093-8
Food intervention
CPT® 96156, 96160, 96161,97802, 97803, 97804
HCPCS S5170, S9470
SNOMED 1759002, 61310001, 103699006, 308440001, 385767005, 710824005,
710925007, 711069006, 713109004, 1002223009, 1002224003, 1002225002,
1004109000, 1004110005, 1148446004, 1162436000, 1230338004, 1268662008,
1268726004, 1268727008, 1269404007, 441041000124100, 441201000124108,
441231000124100, 441241000124105, 441251000124107, 441261000124109,
441271000124102, 441281000124104, 441291000124101, 441301000124100,
441311000124102, 441321000124105, 441331000124108, 441341000124103,
441351000124101, 445291000124103, 445301000124102, 445641000124105,
461481000124109, 462481000124102, 462491000124104, 464001000124109,
464011000124107, 464021000124104, 464031000124101, 464041000124106,
464051000124108, 464061000124105, 464071000124103, 464081000124100,
464091000124102, 464101000124108, 464111000124106, 464121000124103,
464131000124100,464141000124105, 464151000124107, 464161000124109,
464171000124102, 464181000124104, 464191000124101, 464201000124103,
464211000124100, 464221000124108, 464231000124106, 464241000124101,
464251000124104, 464261000124102, 464271000124109, 464281000124107,
464291000124105, 464301000124106, 464311000124109, 464321000124101,
464331000124103, 464341000124108, 464351000124105, 464361000124107,
464371000124100, 464381000124102, 464401000124102, 464411000124104,
464421000124107, 464431000124105, 464611000124102, 464621000124105,
464631000124108, 464641000124103, 464651000124101, 464661000124104,
464671000124106, 464681000124109, 464691000124107, 464701000124107,
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Social Need Screening and Intervention (SNS-E)
(cont.)
Food intervention
SNOMED (cont.) 464721000124102, 467591000124102, 467601000124105, 467611000124108,
467621000124100, 467631000124102, 467641000124107, 467651000124109,
467661000124106, 467671000124104, 467681000124101, 467691000124103,
467711000124100, 467721000124108, 467731000124106, 467741000124101,
467751000124104, 467761000124102, 467771000124109, 467781000124107,
467791000124105, 467801000124106, 467811000124109, 467821000124101,
468401000124109, 470231000124107, 470241000124102, 470261000124103,
470281000124108, 470291000124106, 470301000124107, 470311000124105,
470321000124102, 470591000124109, 470601000124101, 470611000124103,
471111000124101, 471121000124109, 471131000124107, 472151000124109,
472331000124100, 551101000124107, 661101000124109, 661181000124100,
662151000124104, 662651000124105, 663081000124100, 663211000124100
Housing intervention
CPT® 96156, 96160, 96161
SNOMED 49919000, 308440001, 710824005, 711069006, 1148446004, 1148447008,
1148812007, 1148813002, 1148814008, 1148815009, 1148817001, 1148818006,
1148823006, 1156869006, 1162436000, 1162437009, 1230338004, 1268662008,
1268686005, 1268726004, 1268727008, 1269404007, 461481000124109,
462481000124102, 462491000124104, 464001000124109, 464011000124107,
464021000124104, 464131000124100, 464161000124109, 464291000124105,
464301000124106, 464311000124109, 464611000124102, 470231000124107,
470431000124106, 470441000124101, 470451000124104, 470461000124102,
470471000124109, 470481000124107, 470491000124105, 470501000124102,
470581000124106, 470591000124109, 470601000124101, 470611000124103,
470781000124104, 470791000124101, 470801000124100, 470811000124102,
470821000124105, 470831000124108, 470841000124103, 471021000124108,
471031000124106, 471041000124101, 471051000124104, 471061000124102,
471071000124109, 471081000124107, 471091000124105, 471101000124104,
471111000124101, 471121000124109, 471131000124107, 472021000124101,
472031000124103, 472041000124108, 472051000124105, 472081000124102,
472091000124104, 472101000124105, 472111000124108, 472121000124100,
472131000124102, 472141000124107, 472151000124109, 472161000124106,
472191000124103, 472201000124100, 472211000124102, 472221000124105,
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Social Need Screening and Intervention (SNS-E)
(cont.)
Housing intervention (cont.)
SNOMED 472231000124108, 472241000124103, 472251000124101, 472261000124104,
472271000124106, 472281000124109, 472291000124107, 472301000124108,
472311000124106, 472321000124103, 472331000124100, 472341000124105,
472351000124107, 472361000124109, 472371000124102, 472381000124104,
480791000124106, 480801000124107, 480811000124105, 480821000124102,
480831000124104, 480841000124109, 480851000124106, 480861000124108,
480871000124101, 480881000124103, 480891000124100, 480901000124101,
480911000124103, 480921000124106, 480931000124109, 480941000124104,
480951000124102, 480961000124100, 480971000124107, 480981000124105,
551041000124105, 551051000124107, 551061000124109, 551071000124102,
551081000124104, 551091000124101, 551101000124107, 581041000124102,
661181000124100, 663211000124100
Transportation intervention
CPT® 96156, 96160, 96161
SNOMED 228615008, 308440001, 710824005, 711069006, 716730006, 716732003,
716733008, 1148446004, 1162436000, 1230338004, 1268662008,
1268726004, 1268727008, 1269404007, 461481000124109, 462481000124102,
462491000124104, 464001000124109, 464011000124107, 464021000124104,
464131000124100, 464161000124109, 464291000124105, 464301000124106,
464311000124109, 464611000124102, 470231000124107, 470591000124109,
470601000124101, 470611000124103, 471111000124101, 471121000124109,
471131000124107, 472151000124109, 472331000124100, 551101000124107,
551111000124105, 551121000124102, 551141000124109, 551161000124108,
551191000124100, 551231000124105, 551251000124103, 551261000124101,
551271000124108, 551281000124106, 551291000124109, 551301000124105,
551311000124108, 551321000124100, 551331000124102, 551341000124107,
551351000124109, 551361000124106, 551371000124104, 551381000124101,
551391000124103, 551401000124101, 551411000124103, 551421000124106,
551431000124109, 610961000124100, 610971000124107, 610981000124105,
610991000124108, 611001000124109, 611011000124107, 611021000124104,
611031000124101, 611041000124106, 611051000124108, 611061000124105,
611071000124103, 611081000124100, 611091000124102, 611101000124108,
611111000124106, 611121000124103, 611281000124107, 611291000124105,
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

Electronic Clinical Data Submission (ECDS) Measures Home
Social Need Screening and Intervention (SNS-E)
(cont.)
Transportation intervention
SNOMED 611301000124106, 611311000124109, 611321000124101, 611331000124103,
611341000124108, 611351000124105, 611361000124107, 611371000124100,
611381000124102, 611391000124104, 611401000124102, 611411000124104,
611421000124107, 611431000124105, 611441000124100, 611451000124103,
651011000124100, 651031000124106, 661181000124100, 662351000124101,
663211000124100
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services • Any time during the
• Members who die measurement year
• Any time during the
measurement period
Members ages 66 and older as of Dec. 31 of the measurement
year who are either: • Any time during the
• Enrolled in an Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP) measurement year
• Living long term in an institution
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Each member should have 1 screening code annually for food, housing and transportation
• Each member who screens positive should also have a corresponding intervention code within 30 days
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Concurrent Use of Opioids and
Benzodiazepines (COB)
New for 2025
• This is a new CMS Star measure for measurement year 2025
Definition
Percentage of Medicare Part D beneficiaries ages 18 and older with concurrent use of prescription
opioids and benzodiazepines.
Numerator includes members with at least 2 fills of an opioid and 2 fills of a benzodiazepine and an
overlapping days’ supply for at least 30 cumulative days during the measurement period. Lower rates
represent better performance.
Compliance
To be compliant with this measure, concurrent use of opioids and benzodiazepines must be limited to
less than 30 cumulative overlapping days during the measurement period.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Part D prescription claims
• Pharmacy data
Drug classes
Drug class Medication
Opiods Benzhydrocodone Hydrocodone Opium
Buprenorphine Hydromorphone Oxycodone
Butorphanol Levorphanol Oxymorphone
Codeine Meperidine Pentzazocine
Dihydrocodeine Methadone Tapentadol
Fentanyl Morphine Tramadol
Benzodiazepines Alprazolam Diazepam Oxazepam
Chlordiazepoxide Estazolam Quazepam
Clobazam Flurazepam Temazepam
Clonazepam Lorazepam Triazolam
Clorazepate Midazolam
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Concurrent Use of Opioids and
Benzodiazepines (COB)
Exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members with at least 1 day of hospice coverage during Any time during the
measurement period measurement year
• Members diagnosed with cancer
• Members diagnosed with Sickle Cell Disease at any time
during the measurement period
– Sickle Cell ICD_10 code list: D57.00, D57.01, D57.02, D57.03,
D57.04, D57.09, D57.1, D57.20, D57.211, D57.212, D57.213,
D57.214, D57.218, D57.219, D57.40, D57.411, D57.412, D57.413,
D57.414, D57.418, D57.419, D57.42, D57.431, D57.432, D57.433,
D57.434, D57.438, D57.439, D57.44, D57.451, D57.452, D57.453,
D57.454, D57.458, D57.459, D57.80, D57.811, D57.812, D57.813,
D57.814, D57.818, D57.819
• Members diagnosed with palliative care at any time during
the measurement period
– Palliative care ICD_10 Code List: Z51.5
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Avoid prescribing a benzodiazepine to a patient – Avoid initial combination by offering
already taking an opioid alternative approaches
• Evaluate concurrent use of benzodiazepine and – If new prescriptions are needed, limit the dose
opioids and consider discontinuing one of and duration
the medications or using alternative therapy – Taper long-standing medications gradually, and
• Educate patients about the risks of taking opioids discontinue whenever possible
and benzodiazepines concurrently – Continue long-term co-prescribing only when
• Help patients explore alternative methods for necessary and monitor closely
managing pain – Provide rescue medication (e.g., naloxone) to
• Coordinate care with all of the patient’s treating high-risk patients and their caregivers
providers to avoid co-prescriptions • For additional resources, refer to cms.gov >
• CMS offers 5 central principles for co-prescribing SE19011 - Reduce Risk of Opioid Overdose Deaths
benzos and opioids: by Avoiding and Reducing Co-Prescribing
Benzodiazepines
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Cholesterol (MAC)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 and older who adhere to their cholesterol (statin) medication
at least 80% of the time in the measurement period.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Part D prescription claims
• Pharmacy data
Compliance
To comply with this measure, a member must have a proportion of days covered (PDC) of
80% or higher for their statin medication in the measurement period.
Exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD): I20.0, I13.11, I13.2, N18.5, measurement year
N18.6, N19, Z91.15, Z99.2
• Dialysis
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Cholesterol (MAC)
(cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Discuss continued therapy. If ongoing therapy
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to is appropriate, talk with members about getting
see members with open care opportunities. timely refills to prevent large gaps between fills.
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare This is particularly important between the first
representative can help. and second fills to set up good habits for
– Focus on members marked yellow in your future fills.
PCOR because they may be at risk for • Members qualify for the measure with the
non-adherence second fill, but the measurement period starts
• Log on to Practice Assist to review members with the date of the first fill
with open care opportunities – For members who qualified for the
– Select Medication Adherence to view your measure denominator:
patient list o Pay attention to allowable days remaining
– The list is updated every day and prioritizes and days of therapy missed year-to-date
members at highest risk for not taking their (YTD) in your PCOR or in Practice Assist.
medications. You can also use the tool to Members should have a zero or greater
document a member’s progress. allowable days remaining (ADR) at the end
of the measurement period.
• Improve health literacy. Talk with members
about why they’re on a statin medication, and – Members can't achieve 80% Proportion of
how it’s important to take their medication as Days covered (PDC) when the allowable days
prescribed and get timely refills. is less than zero. ADR must be zero or higher
for a member to be adherent.
• Assess adherence barriers. Discuss medication
adherence barriers at each visit and ask open-
ended questions about concerns related to
health benefits, side effects and cost.
Broad formulary coverage available under UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan formularies.
Please refer to specific plan formulary for coverage details.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health/Resource Services Administration (HRSA) requirements say network pharmacy providers owned by a
340(b) participating entity may discount or waive the cost-sharing amounts owed by members if there’s genuine financial need.
In these cases, Medicare rules and your agreement with OptumRx requires your pharmacy to:
1. Submit claims for Part D drugs for Medicare Part D members to OptumRx using the POS System.
2. If applicable, adjust the member’s cost-sharing portion after submitting claims when collecting payment, using guidance on genuine financial need as
described by HRSA.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Cholesterol (MAC)
(cont.)
• Consider extended days’ supply prescriptions. changed, please void the old prescription and
When clinically appropriate, consider writing send a new one to the member’s pharmacy.
3-month supplies for prescriptions for chronic • Use prescription benefit at the pharmacy.
conditions to help improve adherence and Remind your patients who are UnitedHealthcare
minimize frequent trips to the pharmacy – members to use their health plan ID card
especially if getting to the pharmacy is an issue. at the pharmacy to get the best value. Only
UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage benefit prescription fills processed with a member’s
plans include coverage for a 3-month supply of health plan ID card can be used to measure a
prescriptions that can be delivered to a patient’s member’s adherence to their medication.
home or picked up at a retail pharmacy.
• Try home delivery. If getting to a pharmacy
o For some health plans, members have $0
is difficult, ask members about the possibility
copays on Tier 1 drugs (1-month and 3-month
of filling their prescriptions through a
supplies). A few health plans even have $0
UnitedHealthcare network mail order pharmacy
copays for Tier 1 and Tier 2 drugs (1-month and
so they can get their medication delivered to
3-month supplies).
their home. For more information, please call
• Prescribe low-cost generics. When clinically OptumRx® at
appropriate, prescribe low-cost generic 800-791-7658 or contact your UnitedHealthcare
medications to help reduce out-of-pocket costs. representative.
For some health plans, members have $0 copays
• Stay organized. Encourage members to use a
on Tier 1 drugs (1-month and 3-month supplies).
pillbox to keep organized and to set an alarm on
A few health plans even have $0 copays for Tier 1
their phone or clock as a reminder to take their
and Tier 2 drugs (1-month and
medication.
3-month supplies).
• Join a reminder program. Ask members to
• Confirm instructions. Check that the
sign up for a refill reminder program at their
directions on members’ prescriptions match
pharmacy, if available.
your instructions. If the dose or frequency is
Broad formulary coverage available under UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan formularies.
Please refer to specific plan formulary for coverage details.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health/Resource Services Administration (HRSA) requirements say network pharmacy providers owned by a
340(b) participating entity may discount or waive the cost-sharing amounts owed by members if there’s genuine financial need.
In these cases, Medicare rules and your agreement with OptumRx requires your pharmacy to:
1. Submit claims for Part D drugs for Medicare Part D members to OptumRx using the POS System.
2. If applicable, adjust the member’s cost-sharing portion after submitting claims when collecting payment, using guidance on genuine financial need as
described by HRSA.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Diabetes
Medications (MAD)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 or older who are adherent to their diabetes medications at least
80% of the time in the measurement period.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Part D prescription claims
• Pharmacy data
Compliance
To comply with this measure, a member* must have a proportion of days covered (PDC) of 80%
or higher for their diabetes medication(s) in the measurement period. These classes of diabetes
medications are included in this measure:
• Biguanides
• DPP-4 inhibitors
• GLP-1 receptor agonists
• Meglitinides
• SGLT2 inhibitors
• Sulfonylureas
• Thiazolidinediones
*Members who take insulin using their Part D benefit are not included in this measure.
Exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD): I20.0, I13.11, I13.2, N18.5, measurement year
N18.6, N19, Z91.15, Z99.2
• Dialysis
• One or more prescription claim for insulin with their Any time during the
Part D benefit treatment period
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Diabetes
Medications (MAD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity • Assess adherence barriers. Discuss medication
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to adherence barriers at each visit and ask open-
see members with open care opportunities. ended questions about concerns related to
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare health benefits, side effects and cost.
representative can help. • Discuss continued therapy. If ongoing therapy
– Focus on members marked yellow in your is appropriate, talk with members about getting
PCOR because they may be at risk for timely refills to prevent large gaps between fills.
non-adherence This is particularly important between the first
• Log on to Practice Assist to review members and second fills to set up good habits for
with open care opportunities future fills.
– Select Medication Adherence to view your – Members qualify for the measure with the
patient list second fill, but the measurement period
starts with the date of the first fill
– The list is updated every day and prioritizes
members at highest risk for not taking their – For members who qualified for the measure
medications. You can also use the tool to denominator:
document a member’s progress. o Pay attention to allowable days remaining
• Improve health literacy. Talk with members and days of therapy missed year-to-date
about why they’re on a diabetic medication, and (YTD) in your PCOR or in Practice Assist.
how it’s important to take their medication as Members should have zero or greater
prescribed and get timely refills. allowable days remaining (ADR) at the end
of the measurement period.
Broad formulary coverage available under UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan formularies. Please refer to specific plan formulary for
coverage details.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health/Resource Services Administration (HRSA) requirements say network pharmacy providers owned by a
340(b) participating entity may discount or waive the cost-sharing amounts owed by members if there’s genuine financial need.
In these cases, Medicare rules and your agreement with OptumRx requires your pharmacy to:
1. Submit claims for Part D drugs for Medicare Part D members to OptumRx using the POS System.
2. If applicable, adjust the member’s cost-sharing portion after submitting claims when collecting payment, using guidance on genuine financial need as
described by HRSA.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Diabetes
Medications (MAD) (cont.)
– Members can't achieve 80% Proportion of • Confirm instructions. Check that the
Days covered (PDC) when the allowable days directions on members’ prescriptions match
is less than zero. ADR must be zero or higher your instructions. If the dose or frequency is
for a member to be adherent. changed, please void the old prescription and
• Consider extended days’ supply prescriptions. send a new one to the member’s pharmacy.
When clinically appropriate, consider writing • Use prescription benefit at the pharmacy.
a 3-month supply of prescriptions for chronic Remind your patients who are UnitedHealthcare
conditions to help improve adherence and members to use their health plan ID card
minimize frequent trips to the pharmacy – at the pharmacy to get the best value. Only
especially if getting to the pharmacy is an issue. prescription fills processed with a member’s
UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage benefit health plan ID card can be used to measure a
plans include coverage for a 3-month supply of member’s adherence to their medication.
prescriptions that can be delivered to a patient’s • Try home delivery. If getting to a pharmacy
home or picked up at a retail pharmacy. is difficult, ask members about the possibility
o For some health plans, members have $0 of filling their prescriptions through a
copays on Tier 1 drugs (1-month and 3-month UnitedHealthcare network mail order pharmacy
supplies). A few health plans even have $0 so they can get their medication delivered to
copays for Tier 1 and Tier 2 drugs (1-month and their home. For more information, please call
3-month supplies). OptumRx® at 800-791-7658 or contact your
• Prescribe low-cost generics. When clinically UnitedHealthcare representative.
appropriate, prescribe low-cost generic • Stay organized. Encourage members to use a
medications to help reduce out-of-pocket costs. pillbox to keep organized and to set an alarm on
For some health plans, members have $0 copays their phone or clock as a reminder to take
on Tier 1 drugs (1-month and 3-month supplies). their medication.
A few health plans even have $0 copays for Tier 1 • Join a reminder program. Ask members to
and Tier 2 drugs (1-month and sign up for a refill reminder program at their
3-month supplies). pharmacy, if available.
Broad formulary coverage available under UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan formularies. Please refer to specific plan formulary for
coverage details.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health/Resource Services Administration (HRSA) requirements say network pharmacy providers owned by a
340(b) participating entity may discount or waive the cost-sharing amounts owed by members if there’s genuine financial need.
In these cases, Medicare rules and your agreement with OptumRx requires your pharmacy to:
1. Submit claims for Part D drugs for Medicare Part D members to OptumRx using the POS System.
2. If applicable, adjust the member’s cost-sharing portion after submitting claims when collecting payment, using guidance on genuine financial need as
described by HRSA.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Hypertension
(RAS Antagonists) (MAH)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes for this measure
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 or older who adhere to their hypertension (RAS antagonist)
medication at least 80% of the time in the measurement period.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Part D prescription claims
• Pharmacy data
Compliance
To comply with this measure, a member must have a proportion of days covered (PDC) of
80% or higher for their hypertension (RAS antagonist) medication in the measurement
period. RAS antagonist medications include:
• Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs)
• Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors
• Direct renin inhibitors
Exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD): I20.0, I13.11, I13.2, N18.5, measurement year
N18.6, N19, Z91.15, Z99.2
• Dialysis
• One or more prescription claim for sacubitril/valsartan Any time during the
(Entresto) with their Part D benefit treatment period
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Hypertension
(RAS antagonists) (MAH) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity ended questions about concerns related to
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often to health benefits, side effects and cost.
see members with open care opportunities. • Discuss continued therapy. If ongoing therapy
If you have questions, your UnitedHealthcare is appropriate, talk with members about getting
representative can help. timely refills to prevent large gaps between fills.
– Focus on members marked yellow in your This is particularly important between the first
PCOR because they may be at risk for and second fills to set up good habits for
non-adherence future fills.
• Log on to Practice Assist to review members with – Members qualify for the measure with the
open care opportunities second fill, but the measurement period starts
– Select Medication Adherence to view with the date of the first fill
your patient list – For members who qualified for the
– The list is updated every day and prioritizes measure denominator:
members at highest risk for not taking their o Pay attention to allowable days remaining
medications. You can also use the tool to and days of therapy missed year-to-date
document a member’s progress. (YTD) in your PCOR or in Practice Assist.
• Improve health literacy. Talk with members Members should have zero or greater
about why they’re on a medication for high blood allowable days remaining (ADR) at the end
pressure, and how it’s important to take their of the measurement period.
medication as prescribed and get timely refills.
• Assess adherence barriers. Discuss medication
adherence barriers at each visit and ask open-
Broad formulary coverage available under UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan formularies. Please refer to specific plan formulary for
coverage details.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health/Resource Services Administration (HRSA) requirements say network pharmacy providers owned by a
340(b) participating entity may discount or waive the cost-sharing amounts owed by members if there’s genuine financial need.
In these cases, Medicare rules and your agreement with OptumRx requires your pharmacy to:
1. Submit claims for Part D drugs for Medicare Part D members to OptumRx using the POS System.
2. If applicable, adjust the member’s cost-sharing portion after submitting claims when collecting payment, using guidance on genuine financial need as
described by HRSA.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Adherence for Hypertension
(RAS antagonists) (MAH) (cont.)
– Members can't achieve 80% Proportion of • Confirm instructions. Check that the
Days covered (PDC) when the allowable days directions on members’ prescriptions match
is less than zero. ADR must be zero or higher your instructions. If the dose or frequency is
for a member to be adherent. changed, please void the old prescription and
• Consider extended days’ supply prescriptions. send a new one to the member’s pharmacy.
When clinically appropriate, consider writing • Use prescription benefit at the pharmacy.
a 3-month supply of prescriptions for chronic Remind your patients who are UnitedHealthcare
conditions to help improve adherence and members to use their health plan ID card at the
minimize frequent trips to the pharmacy – pharmacy to get the best value.
especially if getting to the pharmacy is an issue. Only prescription fills processed with a
UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage benefit member’s health plan ID card can be used to
plans include coverage for a 3-month supply of measure a member’s adherence to
prescriptions that can be delivered to a patient’s their medication.
home or picked up at a retail pharmacy. • Try home delivery. If getting to a pharmacy
o For some health plans, members have $0 is difficult, ask members about the possibility
copays on Tier 1 drugs (1-month and 3-month of filling their prescriptions through a
supplies). A few health plans even have $0 UnitedHealthcare network mail order pharmacy
copays for Tier 1 and Tier 2 drugs (1-month and so they can get their medication delivered to
3-month supplies). their home. For more information, please call
• Prescribe low-cost generics. When clinically OptumRx® at 800-791-7658 or contact your
appropriate, prescribe low-cost generic UnitedHealthcare representative.
medications to help reduce out-of-pocket costs. • Stay organized. Encourage members to use a
For some health plans, members have $0 copays pillbox to keep organized and to set an alarm on
on Tier 1 drugs (1-month and 3-month supplies). their phone or clock as a reminder to take
A few health plans even have $0 copays for Tier 1 their medication.
and Tier 2 drugs (1-month and • Join a reminder program. Ask members to
3-month supplies). sign up for a refill reminder program at their
pharmacy, if available.
Broad formulary coverage available under UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan formularies. Please refer to specific plan formulary for
coverage details.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health/Resource Services Administration (HRSA) requirements say network pharmacy providers owned by a
340(b) participating entity may discount or waive the cost-sharing amounts owed by members if there’s genuine financial need.
In these cases, Medicare rules and your agreement with OptumRx requires your pharmacy to:
1. Submit claims for Part D drugs for Medicare Part D members to OptumRx using the POS System.
2. If applicable, adjust the member’s cost-sharing portion after submitting claims when collecting payment, using guidance on genuine financial need as
described by HRSA.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Therapy Management Program
Completion Rate for Comprehensive Medication
Reviews (CMR)
New for 2025
Added
• Due to CMS changes expanding the targeting criteria, this measure will move to a
Display measure for 2 years and will return as a Star measure in 2027
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 or older enrolled in a medication therapy management (MTM)
program who received a comprehensive Medication review (CMR) during the reporting period.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare Part D • CMS Star Ratings (returning in Part D prescription claims
measurement year 2027) • Pharmacy data
• Medical claim data
• Part D reporting
Exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice Any time during the
• Members who were enrolled in a MTM program for less than measurement year
60 days during the reporting period and didn’t receive a CMR
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Therapy Management Program
Completion Rate for Comprehensive Medication
Reviews (CMR) (cont.)
Important notes
Time frame
CMR must be completed by a pharmacist or other health care Within the reporting
professional during a member’s enrollment in a MTM program. period
• To be enrolled in UnitedHealthcare’s MTM program, a member
must meet certain eligibility requirements that include:
– Diagnosis of 3 of these 10 chronic conditions: Alzheimer’s
disease, bone disease-arthritis (osteoporosis, osteoarthritis
and rheumatoid arthritis), chronic congestive heart failure
(CHF), diabetes, dyslipidemia end-stage renal disease (ESRD),
human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (HIV/AIDS), hypertension, mental health (depression,
schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other chronic/disabling
mental health conditions) and respiratory disease (asthma,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other
chronic lung disorders), AND
– Prescription fills of at least 8 Medicare Part D-covered
medications for chronic conditions, AND
– Total prescription costs of at least $1,623 for Medicare Part
D-covered drugs this year, OR
– At-risk beneficiaries in a drug management program to help
better manage and safely use medications, such as those used
for pain
• UnitedHealthcare identifies eligible members quarterly,
and automatically enrolls them in our MTM program
– Participants are contacted by mail or phone and asked to
schedule a personal medication review with a pharmacist or
other qualified care provider. A written summary including a
personal medication list, action plan and information on safe
disposal of medications is provided following the CMR.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Medication Therapy Management Program
Completion Rate for Comprehensive Medication
Reviews (CMR) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• UnitedHealthcare’s MTM program is offered at • Let eligible members know the program can
no cost to eligible plan members with Medicare help them:
Part D coverage. Once enrolled, members can – Take their medications as you prescribed
complete a CMR with one of our pharmacists.
– Recognize the benefits of their medications
• To identify members who may be eligible
– Better understand side effects to help lower
for an annual Medication review, check the
the risk for adverse reactions
CMR flag within the Practice Assist tool. Your
• At every appointment, remind members
UnitedHealthcare representative can show
about the importance of taking their
you how.
medications as prescribed
• At office visits, ask eligible members to call our
MTM pharmacist team at 866-216-0198, TTY
711. Or, call “live” during a visit so they can do
their CMR right from your office or schedule for
a later date.
– Pharmacists are available Monday – Friday,
9 a.m. – 9 p.m. ET, and can often do a review
right away
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Polypharmacy – Use of Multiple
Anticholinergics Medications in Older Adults
(Poly-ACH)
New for 2025
• This is a new CMS Star measure for measurement year 2025
Definition
The percentage of Medicare Part D beneficiaries ages 65 and older with concurrent use of 2 or more
unique anticholinergic (ACH) medications. Includes members with at least 2 fills of each medication on
different dates of service in the targeted drug class during the measurement period. Concurrent use
is defined as overlapping days’ supply for at least 30 cumulative days during the measurement period.
Lower rates represent better performance.
Compliance
To be compliant with this measure concurrent use of 2 or more anticholinergics must be limited to less
than 30 cumulative overlapping days during the measurement period.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Part D prescription claims
• Pharmacy data
Drug classes
Drug class Medication
Antihistamines • Brompheniramine • Chlorpheniramine • Cyproheptadine
• Dimenhydrinate • Diphenhydramine (Oral) • Doxylamine
• Hydroxyzine • Meclizine • Triprolidine
Antiparkinsonian • Benztropine • Trihexyphenidyl
Agents
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Polypharmacy – Use of Multiple
Anticholinergics Medications in Older Adults
(Poly-ACH) (cont.)
Drug class Medication
Skeletal Muscle • Cyclobenzaprine • Orphenadrine
Relaxants
Antidepressants • Amitriptyline • Doxepin (> 6 mg/day) • Paroxetine
• Amoxapine • Imipramine
• Nortriptyline • Desipramine
Antimuscarinic • Darifenacin • Oxybutynin • Trospium
(urinary • Fesoterodine • Solifenacin
incontinence)
• Flavoxate • Tolterodine
Antipsychotics • Chlorpromazine • Olanzapine • Clozapine
• Perphenazine
Antispasmodics • Atropine (excludes • Dicyclomine • Scopolamine
ophthalmic) • Homatropine (excludes (excludes ophthalmic)
• Clidinium- ophthalmic)
chlordiazepoxide
• Hyoscyamine
Antiemetics • Prochlorperazine • Promethazine
Exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members with at least 1 day of hospice coverage during the Any time during the
measurement period measurement year
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Polypharmacy – Use of Multiple
Anticholinergics Medications in Older Adults
(Poly-ACH) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Identify patients taking 2 or more • Educate patients and caregivers about
anticholinergic medications the risks and side effects of using multiple
• Review indication, duration of therapy and anticholinergic medications including cognitive
evaluate if potential risk of continued therapy decline and what to do if they experience
outweighs the benefit side effects
• Discontinue medication as appropriate or • Take a holistic patient approach when
consider safer alternative evaluating appropriateness including
patient goals, current guidelines and
co-morbid conditions
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Statin Use in Persons With Diabetes (SUPD)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Definition
Percentage of Medicare members with diabetes ages 40–75 who receive at least 1 fill of a statin
medication in the measurement year. Members with diabetes are defined as those who have at least 2 fills
of diabetes medications during the measurement year.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Medicare • CMS Star Ratings Part D prescription claims
• Pharmacy data
Compliance
To comply with this measure, a member with diabetes must have a fill for at least 1 statin or statin
combination medication in any strength or dose using their Part D benefit during the measurement year.
The statins shown here are on a member’s UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage formulary:i,ii
i All product names are registered ® trademarks of their respective holders. Use of them does not imply any affiliation with or
endorsement by them.
ii The formulary and pharmacy network may change at any time.
*Lowest copay of all tier levels
**Tiers for these medications may be different for group retiree plans
*** not complete ICD 10 list
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Statin Use in Persons With Diabetes (SUPD) (cont.)
Compliance
To comply with this measure, a member with diabetes must have a fill for at least 1 statin or statin
combination medication in any strength or dose using their Part D benefit during the measurement year.
The statins shown here are on a member’s UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage formulary:i,ii
Formulary tier Medications
Tier 1* • Atorvastatin • Simvastatin • Fluvastatin
• Lovastatin • Rosuvastatin
• Pravastatin • Amlodipine-
• Ezetimibe-simvastatin atorvastatin
Tier 3** • Livalo®
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services Any time during the
• End Stage Renal Disease: I12.0, I13.11, I13.2, N18.5, N18.6, N19, measurement year
Z91.15, Z99.2
• Dialysis: Z91.15, Z99.2
• Beneficiaries with rhabdomyolysis or myopathy: G72.0, G72.89, G72.9,
M60.80, M60.819, M60.829, M60.839, M60.849, M60.859, M60.869,
M60.879, M60.9, M62.82
• Lactation: O91.03, O91.13, O91.23, O92.03, O92.5, 092.13, O92.70,
O92.79, Z39.1
• Pregnancy (1000+ codes) ***: O00.101, O09.00, O10.011, O20.0, O30.331,
O99.019, O99.210, O99.340, O99.810, O99.820, Z33.1, Z34.00,
Z34.83, Z34.90, Z34.91, Z34.92, Z34.93
• Fertility: Captured via a pharmacy claim for Clomiphene adjudicated
with Part D coverage
• Cirrhosis: K70.30, K70.31, K71.7, K74.3, K74.4, K74.5, K74.60, K74.69
• Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS): E28.2
• Pre-diabetes: R73.03, R73.09
i All product names are registered ® trademarks of their respective holders. Use of them does not imply any affiliation with or endorsement by them.
ii The formulary and pharmacy network may change at any time.
*Lowest copay of all tier levels
**Tiers for these medications may be different for group retiree plans
*** not complete ICD 10 list
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CMS Part D measures Home
Statin Use in Persons With Diabetes (SUPD) (cont.)
Tips and best practices to help close this care opportunity:
• Please check your Patient Care Opportunity (ASCVD).1-2 Statin use in patients with diabetes
Report (PCOR) or Practice Assist often. Look in has shown to decrease incidence of cardiovascular
the Pharmacy Detail tab for members with open events by 21% per 39 mg/dL decrease in LDL and
care opportunities decrease mortality by 9% per 39 mg/dL.3
• Log on to Practice Assist to review members • Prescription must be filled through Part D
with open care opportunities insurance card to close this care opportunity.
– Select Medication Adherence to view y Prescriptions filled through cash claims, discount
our patient list programs (such as GoodRx) and medication
samples will not close the measure.
– Members without a statin fill this year will be
marked with a “Gap” under the SUPD measure • If member has intolerance or side effects such as
myalgias, if clinically appropriate, consider:
• Consider prescribing a statin, as appropriate.
- A different statin that is hydrophilic (e.g.,
If you determine a statin medication is
rosuvastatin or pravastatin)
appropriate, please send a prescription to the
member’s preferred pharmacy.* - A lower dose statin than previously tried
- Reducing the frequency
• Importance of taking a statin: American Diabetes
Association (ADA), American Heart Association • For members who meet exclusion criteria, a claim
(AHA) and American College of Cardiology (ACC) using appropriate ICD-10 code must be submitted
suggest people with diabetes take a moderate ANNUALLY if applicable
statin therapy without calculating a 10-year • Only statins satisfy the measure; other cholesterol
ASCVD risk. In patients with diabetes and higher medications such as ezetimibe or PCSK9 inhibitors
cardiovascular risk, a high-intensity statin is do not satisfy the measure
reasonable. Statins can reduce the risk of heart • Consider extended day fills (e.g., 90- or 100-day
attack and stroke, even in patients who do not supply) or send to home delivery
have high cholesterol. Patients with type 1 and
• Unstructured/supplemental data cannot be
type 2 diabetes have increased prevalence of
submitted for gap closure for SUPD
lipid abnormalities that leads to increased risk of
developing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease
References:
1. G rundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the Management of Blood
Cholesterol. Circulation. 2018;139(25:e1046-e1081). doi:10.1161/cir.0000000000000625. Accessed February 24, 2024
2. Nuha A. ElSayed, Grazia Aleppo, Vanita R. Aroda, et al. on behalf of the American Diabetes Association, 10. Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management: Standards
of Care in Diabetes --2024. Diabetes Care 1 January 2024; 46 (Supplement_1): S158 -S190. https://doi.org/10.2337/dc23-S010. Accessed February 24, 2024
3. Naeem F, McKay G, Fisher M. Cardiovascular outcomes trials with statins in diabetes. British Journal of Diabetes. 2018; 18(1):7-13.
* Member may use any pharmacy in the network, but may not receive preferred retail pharmacy pricing. Pharmacies in the Preferred Retail Pharmacy Network may not
be available in all areas. Co-pays apply after deductible.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Annual Monitoring for Persons on Long-Term
Opioid Therapy (AMO)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 years and older who are prescribed long-term opioid therapy (≥ 90
days) and have not received a Drug test at least once during the measurement year.
A lower rate indicates a better score for this measure.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Exchange/ Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Claim/encounter
• Pharmacy data
Medications
To be included in this measure, a member must have been prescribed ≥ 90 days' cumulative supply
of any combination of opioid analgesics medications during the measurement year:
Opiod medications
• Benzhydrocodone • Fentanyl • Methadone • Tapentadol
• Buprenorphine • Hydrocodone • Morphine • Tramadol
• Butorphanol • Hydromorphone • Oxycodone
• Codeine • Levorphanol • Oxymorphone
• Dihydrocodeine • Meperidine • Pentazocine
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Annual Monitoring for Persons on Long-Term
Opioid Therapy (AMO) (cont.)
Drug test
CPT®/CPT II 80184, 80305, 80306, 80307, 80324, 80325, 80326, 80345, 80346, 80347, 80348,
80349, 80350,80351, 80352, 80353, 80354, 80356, 80358, 80359, 80361, 80362,
80363, 80364, 80365, 80372,80373, 80375, 80376,
80377, 82542
HCPCS G0480, G0481, G0482, G0483, G0659
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services
• Cancer (non-melanoma) Any time during the
• Palliative care measurement year
• Members who died
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
International Normalized Ratio Monitoring for
Individuals on Warfarin (INR)
New for 2025
• No applicable changes to this measure
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 and older who had at least 1 56-day interval of warfarin therapy
and who received at least 1 international normalized ratio (INR) monitoring test, or had an inpatient
Hospital stay (>48 hours) during each 56-day interval with active warfarin therapy.
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Exchange/ Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Claim/encounter
• Pharmacy data
Codes
The following codes can be used to close numerator gaps in care; they are not intended to be a
directive of your billing practice.
INR test
CPT®/CPT II 85610, 3555F
Hospital stay
UBREV 0024, 0100, 0101, 0110, 0111, 0112, 0113, 0114, 0116, 0117, 0118, 0119, 0120, 0121,
0122, 0123, 0124, 0126, 0127, 0128, 0129, 0130, 0131, 0132, 0133, 0134, 0136, 0137,
0138, 0139, 0140, 0141, 0142, 0143, 0144, 0146, 0147, 0148, 0149, 0150, 0151, 0152,
0153, 0154, 0156, 0157, 0158, 0159, 0160, 0164, 0167, 0169, 0170, 0171, 0172, 0173,
0174, 0179, 0190, 0191, 0192, 0193, 0194, 0199, 0200, 0201, 0202, 0203, 0204, 0206,
0207, 0208, 0209, 0210, 0211, 0212, 0213, 0214, 0219, 1000, 1001, 1002
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
International Normalized Ratio Monitoring for
Individuals on Warfarin (INR9) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• INR home monitoring (lab or medical claim) Any time during the
• Members who died measurement year
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Proportion of Days Covered (PDC)
Definition
Percentage of members ages 18 or older who are adherent to their blood pressure, diabetes and
cholesterol medication(s) at least 80% of the time in the measurement period.
Rates are reported for each of the following:
• Renin Angiotensin System Antagonists (PDC-RASA)
• Diabetes All Class (PDC-DR)
• Statins (PDC-STA)
Plans(s) affected Quality program(s) affected Collection and
reporting method
• Exchange/ Marketplace • CMS Quality Rating System Administrative
• Claim/encounter
Medications
Members who filled at least 2 prescriptions of the following medications on different dates of
service during the treatment period.
Drug category Medications
Renin Angiotensin • Direct Renin inhibitor
System (RAS) • ARB medications and combinations
Antagonists • ACE inhibitor medications and combinations
• Biguanides • SGLT2 inhibitors
• DPP-4 inhibitors • Sulfonylureas
Diabetes all class • GIP/ GLP-1 receptor agonists • Thiazolidinediones
• Meglitinides • Sodium Glucose
Co-Transporter2 inhibitors
• Atorvastatin • Pravastatin
• Fluvastatin • Rosuvastatin
Statin medications
• Lovastatin • Simvastatin
• Pitavastatin
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HEDIS Measures Home
Proportion of Days Covered (PDC) (cont.)
Required exclusion(s)
Exclusion Time frame
• Members in hospice or using hospice services
• End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Any time during the
• Prescription claim for Sacubitril/Valsartan (PDC- RASA) measurement year
• One or more prescription claim for insulin (PDC-DR)
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). CPT® is a registered
trademark of the American Medical Association.UnitedHealthcare will make the final determination regarding
reimbursement upon receipt of a claim. Submitting a claim with a code included in this document is not a
guarantee of payment. Payment of covered services is contingent upon coverage within an individual member’s
benefit plan, your eligibility for payment, any claim processing requirements, and your participation agreement
with UnitedHealthcare.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CAHPS® Measures Home
Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers
and Systems (CAHPS)
This health plan member survey is a multi-year survey that evaluates consumer/
member experiences. We use CAHPS results to compare data on members’
experience of care between UnitedHealthcare and prescription drug plans.
The example survey questions here use the Medicare and Medicaid look-back period
of 6 months. The questions for commercial members use a 12-month look-back.
Frequency: Annually between February and June
Target Population: Medicare Advantage, commercial and Medicaid members
Measurement Year Look-Back: 6 months for Medicare and Medicaid, 12 months
for commercial
Care Coordination Customer Service
Survey questions address: Survey questions
• Whether the personal doctor is informed and • How often did your health plan’s customer
up to date about care you received from other service give you the information or help
health care providers you needed?
• Whether the doctor had medical records and • How often did your health plan’s customer
other information about the member’s care service treat you with courtesy and respect?
(Medicare only) • How often were the forms for your health plan
• Whether there was follow-up with the member easy to fill out? (Medicare only)
to provide test results (Medicare only)
Compliance needed to meet the intent of
• How quickly the member got the test results
the measure
(Medicare only)
This case-mix adjusted composite measure is
• Whether the doctor spoke with the member
used to assess how easy it was for members to
about prescription medicines (Medicare only)
get information and help when needed. The
• Whether the member received help managing CAHPS score uses the mean of the distribution of
care (Medicare only) responses converted to a scale from 0 to 100.
Compliance needed to meet the intent of the
measure for medicare advantage plan members
This case-mix adjusted composite measure is used
to assess care coordination. The CAHPS score
uses the mean of the distribution of responses
converted to a scale of 0 to 100.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CAHPS® Measures Home
Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers
and Systems (CAHPS) (cont.)
Getting Appointments and Compliance needed to meet the intent
of the measure
Care Quickly
This case-mix adjusted measure is used to assess
Survey questions
members’ view of the quality of care received
• When you needed care right away, how often from the health plan. The CAHPS score uses the
did you get care as soon as you needed it? mean of the distribution of responses converted
• How often did you get an appointment to a scale from 0 to 100.
for a check-up or routine care as soon as
Rating of Health Plan
you needed?
Survey question
Compliance needed to meet the intent
of the measure • Using any number from 0 to 10, where 0 is the
This case-mix adjusted composite measure is worst health plan possible and 10 is the best
used to assess how quickly members were able health plan possible, what number would you
to get appointments and care. The CAHPS score use to rate your health plan?
uses the mean of the distribution of responses
Compliance needed to meet the intent
converted to a scale from 0 to 100.
of the measure
Getting Needed Care This case-mix adjusted measure is used to assess
the overall view members have of their health
Survey questions
plan. The CAHPS score uses the mean of the
• How often did you get an appointment to see a
distribution of responses converted to a scale
specialist as soon as you needed?
from 0 to 100.
• How often was it easy to get the care, tests or
treatments you needed? Rating of Personal Doctor –
Compliance needed to meet the intent Commercial and Medicaid Only
of the measure
Survey Question
This case-mix adjusted composite measure is
• Using any number from 0 to 10, where 0 is the
used to assess how easy it was for members to get
worst personal doctor possible and 10 is the
needed care and see specialists. The CAHPS score
best personal doctor possible, what number
uses the mean of the distribution of responses
would you use to rate your personal doctor?
converted to a scale from 0 to 100.
Compliance needed to meet the intent
Rating of Health Care
of the measure
Survey question This measure is used to assess the overall view
• Using any number from 0 to 10, where 0 is the members have of their personal doctor.
worst health care possible and 10 is the best
health care possible, what number would you
use to rate all your health care?
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

CAHPS® Measures Home
Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers
and Systems (CAHPS) (cont.)
Rating of Specialist Seen • In the last 6 months, how often were you
advised to quit smoking or using tobacco by a
Most Often – Commercial and
doctor or other health provider?
Medicaid Only
• In the last 6 months, how often was
medication recommended or discussed by
We want to know your rating of the specialist you
a doctor or health provider to assist you with
saw most often. Using any number from 0 to 10,
quitting smoking or using tobacco?
where 0 is the worst specialist possible and 10 is
• In the last 6 months, how often did your
the best specialist possible, what number would
doctor or health provider discuss or
you use to rate that specialist?
provide methods and strategies other than
Compliance needed to meet the intent medication to assist you with quitting smoking
of the measure or using tobacco?
This measure is used to assess the overall
Compliance needed to meet the intent
view members have of the specialist they see
of the measure
most often.
This measure is used to assess the number of
members who indicated that they were advised
Medical Assistance With
to quit, or were provided cessation methods and
Smoking and Tobacco Use
strategies by their doctor or other health
Cessation- Commercial, care provider.
Medicaid and Exchange
Survey questions
• Do you now smoke cigarettes or use tobacco
every day, some days, or not at all?
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HOS Measures Home
Health Outcomes Survey (HOS)
This health plan member survey is used to gather valid, reliable and clinically
meaningful health status data in the Medicare Advantage program for use in quality
improvement activities, pay for performance, program oversight, public reporting
and improving health. All managed care organizations with Medicare Advantage
contracts must participate. The survey looks at physical and mental health
outcomes measures, urinary incontinence in older adults, physical activity in older
adults, fall risk management and osteoporosis testing in older women.
Frequency: Annually between July and November
Target population: Medicare Advantage
Improving bladder control Improving or maintaining
HOS data only mental health
Cohort follow-up data collection and cohort
HOS data only
baseline data collection:
Cohort follow-up data collection and cohort
• HOS Question 38: Many people experience baseline data collection:
leakage of urine, also called urinary
• HOS Question 4a: During the past 4 weeks,
incontinence. In the past 6 months, have you
have you had any of the following problems
experienced leaking of urine?
with your work or other regular daily activities
• HOS Question 39: During the past 6 months, as a result of any emotional problems (such as
how much did leaking of urine make you feeling depressed or anxious)? Accomplished
change your daily activities or interfere with less than you would like: None of the time, a
your sleep? little of the time, some of the time, most of the
• HOS Question 41: There are many ways to time, all of the time
control or manage the leaking of urine, • HOS Question 4b: During the past 4 weeks,
including bladder training exercises, have you had any of the following problems
medication and surgery. Have you ever talked with your work or other regular daily activities
with a doctor, nurse or other health care as a result of any emotional problems (such as
provider about any of these approaches? feeling depressed or anxious)? Didn’t do work
or other activities as carefully as usual: None of
Compliance needed to meet the intent
the time, a little of the time, some of the time,
of the measure
most of the time, all of the time
Percentage of Medicare members ages 65 and
older who reported having urine leakage in the • HOS Question 6a: How much of the time
past 6 months (Question 38) and who discussed during the past 4 weeks have you felt calm and
treatment options for their urinary incontinence peaceful? None of the time, a little of the time,
with a health care provider (Question 41). some of the time, most of the time, all of
the time
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HOS Measures Home
Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) (cont.)
• HOS Question 6b: How much of the time during • HOS Question 2a: The following items are about
the past four weeks did you have a lot of energy? activities you might do during a typical day. Does
None of the time, a little of the time, some of the your health now limit you in these activities?
time, most of the time, all of the time If so, how much? Moderate activities, such as
• HOS Question 6c: How much of the time during moving a table, pushing a vacuum cleaner,
the past four weeks have you felt downhearted bowling or playing golf: Limited a lot, limited a
and blue? None of the time, a little of the time, little, not limited at all
some of the time, most of the time, all of • HOS Question 2b: The following items are about
the timeHOS Question 7: During the past four activities you might do during a typical day. Does
weeks, how much of the time has your physical your health now limit you in these activities? If
health or emotional problems interfered with so, how much? Climbing several flights of stairs:
your social activities (like visiting with friends, Limited a lot, limited a little, not limited at all
relatives, etc.)? None of the time, a little of the • HOS Question 3a: During the past 4 weeks, have
time, some of the time, most of the time, all of you had any of the following problems with your
the time work or other regular daily activities as a result
• HOS Question 7: During the past four weeks, how of your physical health? Accomplished less than
much of the time has your physical health or you would like: None of the time, a little of the
emotional problems interfered with your social time, some of the time, most of the time, all of
activities (like visiting with friends, relatives, the time
etc.)? None of the time, a little of the time, some • HOS Question 3b: During the past 4 weeks, have
of the time, most of the time, all of the time you had any of the following problems with your
work or other regular daily activities as a result of
Compliance needed to meet the intent
your physical health? Were limited in the kind of
of the measure
work or other activities: None of the time, a little
Percentage of sampled Medicare members ages
of the time, some of the time, most of the time,
65 and older whose mental health status was the
all of the time
same or better than expected (Questions 4a–b,
6a–c and 7). • HOS Question 5: During the past 4 weeks, how
much did pain interfere with your normal work
Improving or maintaining (including both work outside the home and
physical health housework)? Not at all, a little bit, moderately,
quite a bit, extremely
HOS data only
Cohort follow-up data collection and cohort
baseline data collection:
• HOS Question 1: In general, would you say your
health is excellent, very good, good, fair or poor?
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025

HOS Measures Home
Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) (cont.)
Compliance needed to meet the intent of Reducing the risk of falling
the measure
HOS data only
Percentage of sampled Medicare members ages
Cohort follow-up data collection and cohort
65 and older whose physical health status was the
baseline data collection:
same, or better than expected (Questions 1, 2a-b,
• HOS Question 44: A fall is when your body goes to
3a-b and 5).
the ground without being pushed. In the past 12
months, did your doctor or other health provider
Monitoring physical activity
talk with you about falling or problems with
HOS data only balance or walking?
Cohort follow-up data collection and cohort • HOS Question 45: Did you fall in the past
baseline data collection: 12 months?
• HOS Question 46: In the past 12 months, have you
• HOS Question 42: In the past 12 months, did you
had a problem with balance or walking?
talk with a doctor or other health provider about
• HOS Question 47: Has your doctor or other health
your level of exercise or physical activity? For
provider done anything to help prevent falls or
example, a doctor or other health provider may
treat problems with balance or walking? Some
ask if you exercise regularly or take part in
things they might do include:
physical exercise.
– Suggest you use a cane or walker
• HOS Question 43: In the past 12 months, did a – Suggest you do an exercise or physical
doctor or other health care provider advise you to therapy program
start, increase or maintain your level of exercise – Suggest vision or hearing testing
or physical activity? For example, in order to
Compliance needed to meet the intent
improve your health, your doctor or other health
of the measure
provider may advise you to start taking the stairs,
Percentage of sampled Medicare members ages
increase walking from 10 to 20 minutes every
65 and older who had a doctor’s visit in the past 12
day or maintain your current exercise program.
months and who received advice to start, increase
Compliance Needed to Meet the Intent of the
or maintain their level of exercise or physical
Measure Percentage of sampled Medicare
activity (Question 43).
members ages 65 and older who had a doctor’s
visit in the past 12 months and who received
advice to start, increase, or maintain their level of
exercise or physical activity (Question 43).
Contact us to learn more.
For more information about how our programs can help support your patients who are
UnitedHealthcare plan members, please contact your UnitedHealthcare representative.
PCA-1-25-01128-E&I-QRG_06102025
© 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved.