June 13, 2025
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Mehmet Oz, MD
Administrator
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
Submitted electronically to regulations.gov
RE: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane and Administrator Oz:
On behalf of Northwestern Memorial HealthCare (NMHC) and the patients and communities we
serve, we appreciate the opportunity to provide input on the Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Services’ (CMS) Request for Information on the Health Technology Ecosystem.
By way of background, NMHC is the corporate parent for the Northwestern Medicine (NM) health
system, which includes 11 hospitals across the Chicagoland area and employs a medical staff of
more than 3,400 physicians, medical residents and fellows.
DIGITAL HEALTH APPS
PR-1: Enabling Adoption
The main obstacles to broader provider adoption of patient-facing digital health products can be
grouped into two buckets: 1) configuration and integration; and 2) change management and
adoption.
Configuration and Integration
Providers must expend significant technical resources to set up a digital health product with the
necessary application programming interfaces (APIs) or other methods of data integration. Even
though FHIR API adoption has grown significantly in recent years, many providers lack the necessary
resources to effectively configure, test, and monitor API integrations for each product. The return on
investment (ROI) for this work can be challenging to assess and thus making it less likely to be
prioritized amid competing technical priorities of a health system.
Change Management and Adoption
Patients and clinicians may require assistance and training to set up and utilize digital health
products. Investment in such resources to encourage adoption will only occur if the ROI of the
product is clear.

CMS can help encourage deployment of digital health products by providing guidelines for integration
and adoption. In addition, introducing a care delivery and payment model incentivizing the use of
digital health products could provide a testing ground for evaluating the impact of such products on
quality and utilization outcomes. A formal program evaluation could quantify the ROI for supporting
the utilization of digital health products.
PR-2: Obstacles to Utilization
While we are very supportive of FHIR APIs and try to leverage them whenever possible, the quality
and completeness of the data available via interoperability methods limits the accuracy and utility
of applications. For example, we still encounter data quality issues that stem from the mapping of
data elements within the EHR to FHIR resources within the APIs provided by the EHR vendor. Despite
a data point being viewable in a patient chart, depending on where information is stored in the EHR
and how a FHIR resource is mapped, it is possible that an application developer that makes a FHIR
API call may not be able to obtain a data point from a FHIR resource. This is more likely to happen if
a health system or provider group has completed substantive customization around how the data
point is stored and displayed within the EHR. Additionally, not all the necessary data for these types
of workflows, specifically billing tasks, are available as FHIR resources. The Claims FHIR resource is
not a part of USCDI Core, and thus not available from our EHR vendor.
PR-3: Availability of Data Agnostic of Storage Format
While we believe that access to EHR data formats, such as images via DICOM APIs, will be important
for the long-term aspirations of interoperability, we would recommend focusing on FHIR APIs and
their validity, accuracy, and completeness. This prioritization would accelerate the development of
high value use cases focused on structured data elements and free text notes. Once we have
achieved the goal state for FHIR, we would then recommend prioritizing imaging via DICOM, followed
by standards for MedTech devices and then genomics data formats.
PR-4: Third-Party Digital Product Access to Provider Administrative Workflows
The current barrier to leveraging third-party products for administrative workflows is how those
workflows are currently built within the EHR system. For example, scheduling patient appointments
in our EHR leverages complex questionnaire and decision-tree logic to determine a patient’s
eligibility for booking specific appointment slots. The Appointment $find and $book operations are
good advancements toward this objective but may not fully solve to the challenge presented by
complex scheduling logic. If this occurs, patients using third party products could be scheduled into
incorrect appointment slots, causing issues for both patients and clinicians. CMS may need to
accelerate advancements to the $find operation to fully expose scheduling business rules via APIs.
Alternatively, CMS could mandate the reduction of the use of these complex business rules, but this
would significantly affect the current state of provider scheduling practices and thus need to be
considered carefully.
DATA EXCHANGE
PR-5: FHIR API Utilization
We support the use of FHIR APIs through our EHR vendor but are also in the process of implementing
an enterprise FHIR Server through Microsoft Azure. We currently have numerous third-party
integrations leveraging Epic’s FHIR APIs. Over the past year, the top 10 resources have been the
following (in order from most API calls): Observation, Practitioner, Encounter, Binary (Clinical Notes),
2

Medication, Location, Organization, Condition, Patient and DiagnosticReport. The use cases that
leverage these APIs mostly rely on individual queries, but some leverage FHIR bundle API calls vs.
individual resources. We have leveraged Bulk FHIR to extract large volumes of FHIR resources to load
to our enterprise FHIR server and lakehouse in Microsoft Azure, but currently do not leverage Bulk
FHIR for third-party integrations. We have several SMART on FHIR applications live with some as EHR-
launched and other standalone. Additionally, we also leverage CDS Hooks extensively within Epic.
PR-6: TEFCA
While we have signed the agreement to participate in Epic’s QHIN, we are still in the process of
contracting with our sub-participants (Community Connect sites). Once agreements are signed and
we are live with TEFCA, we will be able to provide more feedback regarding the benefit and impact.
PR-7: Accelerating Progress
We feel that the primary challenges are not technical, but process oriented. The biggest barrier stems
from the uncertainty around the ROI for providers to invest in and push for greater use of
interoperable integration methods such as FHIR APIs. While we have made strategic investments in
people and technology to support FHIR adoption, we understand that many providers may find
engagement challenging due to the uncertainty of financial return. CMS could not only help providers
better assess ROI, but also directly contribute to that ROI through financial incentives or other
incentive alignments such as regulatory mandates. However, regulatory mandates can result in the
industry doing the minimum to comply versus fully embracing the intent behind the mandate. As
such, we recommend careful thought about the intended goals of interoperability and designing
requirements to achieve those goals holistically. For example, we hope to avoid a repeat of prior
attempts to leverage technology for improved quality measure reporting, such as with Meaningful
Use. The selected measures, and their corresponding specifications in those programs, led to
creative solutions in the EHR market to solve for those specific measures, but did not necessarily
improve the state of broad quality measurement. We recommend that CMS support assessing the
accuracy and completeness of data shared via interoperability mechanism such as FHIR APIs by
comparing the output of like provider groups/health systems for like patient cohorts. For example,
CMS could compare the average number and distribution of data points (number of diagnoses, labs,
medication, etc.) for the Medicare population served by academic medical centers and share the
data with the providers. Large aberrations for a given provider could point them to a potential
mapping issue and support internal improvement efforts regarding data accuracy and
completeness. Such a “scorecard” could identify opportunities for improvement in the EHR build and
FHIR API mappings so that data across providers can be effectively aggregated and benchmarked.
Once the aggregate landscape of interoperable health data across providers has met certain goals
for accuracy, validity and completeness, then CMS will be better positioned to transform how quality
measurement is developed and conducted on a national scale.
PR-8: Simplifying and Prioritizing Requirements
While we support CMS’ desire to leverage Bulk FHIR, we have concerns regarding the EHR vendors’
ability to support Bulk FHIR in a way that is performant and not detrimental to our production EHR
systems. Rigorous testing of Bulk FHIR capabilities is necessary and may require updates to EHR
certification requirements to support the query performance and scalability needs of digital quality
measurement. Before CMS can effectively consider using FHIR for quality measurement, we need to
ensure that the data represented by FHIR API calls will be valid and accurate across all providers. If
3

FHIR data does not reflect clinical reality across all providers similarly, then it cannot be fairly used
for clinical quality measurement (unless under a pay-for-reporting scoring system). We believe that
in the short and medium term, CMS’ primary objective for interoperable data utility should be to
advance the notion of FHIR reflecting clinical reality first and foremost.
DIGITAL IDENTITY
PR-9: Universal Digital Identity Credentials
We appreciate and acknowledge the potential benefits of “universal” digital identity credentials.
Operationalizing universal digital identify credentials is a worthy goal whose success would hinge on
the advance planning and support surrounding an implementation process. Health systems and
provider groups would need to map their current internal patient IDs to the new universal ID.
Inadequate upfront planning and support from the federal government could result in an undue and
costly burden falling on clinicians, as well as delays in execution. CMS could mandate and provide
technical guidance for an API-based approach for integrating a nationally managed digital identity
system to clinicians’ internal enterprise master patient index (eMPI). Provider groups’ and health
systems’ eMPI are typically managed through their EHR vendor (in the case of NM, Epic’s Identity
module). CMS and EHR vendors should partner to determine an optimal mapping process that can
occur via EHRs and include the corresponding necessary specifications in future CEHRT criteria. We
also respectfully recommend that ASTP and/or CMS establish and manage a system for maintaining
universal IDs to ensure accuracy.
We greatly appreciate your consideration of these comments and look forward to continued
collaboration. We would be happy to share feedback on additional specific proposals and/or expand
upon our comments. For additional information, please contact Danny Sama (psama@nm.org) and
Jessica Walradt (Jessica.walradt@nm.org).
Sincerely,
Pradeep (Danny) Sama
Vice President, Information Services
Chief Digital Executive
Northwestern Medicine
Jessica Walradt
Vice President, Value Based Care
Northwestern Medicine
4