June 16, 2025
Dr. Mehmet Oz
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Dr. Thomas Keane
Department of Health and Human Services,
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Mary E. Switzer Building, Mail Stop: 7033A
330 C St. SW
Washington, DC 20201
On behalf of J Michael Consulting (JMC) we are pleased to submit comments on the CMS and ASTP
Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (file code CMS-0042-NC).
JMC is a small business providing public health informatics consulting and support in laboratory
informatics, surveillance informatics, and interoperability. We work closely with state, tribal, local and
territorial public health agencies to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of these critical programs.
We also work closely with federal partners and public health associations to provide broad support to
the public health informatics and interoperability communities. Our goal is to bring science and
technology together to benefit both individual patients and whole populations and are submitting
comments with this goal in mind.
If you have any questions or wish to engage in further conversation, please reach out to our JMC
Public Health Informatics Fellow Craig Newman.
Sincerely,
Jon M. Lipsky
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
J Michael Consulting | 885 Woodstock Road, Suite 430-151, Roswell, GA 30075 | phone: 770-309-3124
website: www.jmichael-consulting.com

General Comment
The recent Request for Information (RFI) issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services (CMS) and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
(ONC) underscores the need for a more interconnected and patient-centric health technology
infrastructure. We would like to emphasize the critical importance of integrating public health
perspectives into the ongoing discussions about the future of the health IT ecosystem. Public
health entities, including state and local health departments, play a pivotal role in disease
prevention and control and their involvement in health IT initiatives ensures that public health
data is accurately captured, shared, and utilized to inform public health strategies and policies.
We urge CMS and ASTP to actively engage public health stakeholders in the development and
implementation of health IT policies and systems. By fostering collaboration between
individuals, healthcare providers, payers, technology developers, and public health entities, we
can create a more robust health IT ecosystem that serves the needs of all Americans.
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare beneficiaries
and caregivers?
We see CMS support for public health activities related to the growth and implementation of a
digital tool ecosystem as being key to ensuring that the carefully curated data maintained by
public health is available to Medicare beneficiaries and their caregivers. However, public health
agencies need support to design, develop, test and implement technical solutions to meet the
needs of Medicare served individuals. As well, CMS and other data sources including
healthcare organizations and payers must be encouraged to meaningfully engage with public
health to implement real-world exchange of data using standards-based approaches so that
complete, longitudinal data is available to beneficiaries. It is crucial that trust is developed
between CMS, healthcare providers, payers, and public health entities to ensure that
appropriate requests from public health for authorized data sets are responded to in a complete
and timely fashion by data holders. This can best be accomplished by clear support by CMS and
other federal partners for data sharing with public health.
TD-3. Regarding digital identity implementation:
a. What are the challenges and benefits?
Historically, the public health experience has been that patient identification and matching is a
complex but vital piece of public health data management and utilization. We strongly
recommend including the public health perspective in deliberations regarding the
implementation of digital identity within the healthcare realm. Too often demographics are
either incomplete or inconsistent for definitive patient matching without costly human
intervention. Integrating the needs of public health with those of other sectors of healthcare and
J Michael Consulting | 885 Woodstock Road, Suite 430-151, Roswell, GA 30075 | phone: 770-309-3124
website: www.jmichael-consulting.com

government will be critical to ensuring that jurisdictions and their trading partners implement
digital identity functionality in a standards-based method.
TD-7. To what degree has USCDI improved interoperability and exchange and what are its
limitations?
The contents of USCDI meet the basic requirements of many public health program data needs,
however, it is important to continue to raise the floor for data availability. By expanding electronic
access to all data classes and elements used by public health, the burden and security risks of
manual data access will be reduced for both public health and their data submitters. Having a
clear pathway to transition data defined by USCDI+ (particularly the Public Health domain) to
USCDI will create greater certainty regarding future data access capabilities. One clear area of
focus that would greatly benefit public health data access is that of maternal and child health.
Many public health programs rely heavily on access to pre-, peri- and post-natal data to provide
support and services to mothers and their newborns. We encourage CMS and their federal
partners to emphasize the need for this data through USCDI and other mechanisms which drive
real-world exchange of data through standards-based approaches.
TD-8. What are the most effective certification criteria and standards under the ONC
Health IT Certification Program?
The 315(f) requirements supporting data exchange with public health have been instrumental in
the development and implementation of standards-based data sharing. We encourage
continued expansion of criteria to fully support all public health data needs. We also strongly
support coordination between federal agencies to continue to expand incentives, such as
Promoting Interoperability, for trading partners such as payers and healthcare organizations to
implement real-world connections with public health.
TD-9. Regarding certification of health IT:
d. What policy changes could CMS make so providers are motivated to respond to API
based data requests with best possible coverage and quality of data?
The development and implementation of FHIR subscription functionality could be
transformational for many aspects of data sharing including public health reporting and case
investigation. The Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP) made FHIR Subscription a
clear priority in the HTI-2 proposed rule. CMS and their federal partners can continue to support
this avenue of exchange through carefully scoped regulations encouraging the development
and implementation of these capabilities. Further, a clear vision for the inclusion of public
health as a data subscriber should be shared with the larger healthcare community, signaling
the importance of meaningfully engagement with public health.
J Michael Consulting | 885 Woodstock Road, Suite 430-151, Roswell, GA 30075 | phone: 770-309-3124
website: www.jmichael-consulting.com