February 23, 2026
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
330 C St SW
Floor 7
Washington, DC 20201
Sent electronically via regulations.gov
RE: Public Comment on Request for Information (RFI) HHS Health Sector AI
RFI: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of
Clinical Care
RIN: 0955-AA13
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane,
The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations
(AFL-CIO) and the AFL-CIO Technology Institute (Tech Institute) appreciate
the opportunity to submit comments in response to the Request for Information
(RFI) from the United States Department of Health and Human Services Office
of the Deputy Secretary in collaboration with the Assistant Secretary for
Technology Policy (ASTP) and Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology (ONC) to seek broad public comment on what HHS can
do to “accelerate the adoption and use of AI as part of clinical care.”1
The AFL-CIO is a democratic, voluntary federation of 64 national and
international labor unions that represent nearly 15 million working people. The
1 Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Secretary. “ Request for Information: Accelerating
the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care,” Federal Register, December 23,
2025,
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/12/23/2025-23641/request-for-information-accelerating-the-
adoption-and-use-of-artificial-intelligence-as-part-of

organization strives to ensure all working people are treated fairly, with decent
paychecks and benefits, safe jobs, dignity, and equal opportunities. The AFL-CIO
also helps people acquire valuable skills and job-readiness for the 21st century
economy. The Tech Institute works at the intersection of technological innovation
in the workplace, centering worker knowledge, expertise, and interests in our
modern innovation-based economy and in public services with the goal of
ensuring that technological change creates widespread prosperity for all working
people.
The Use of AI in Health Care Has Not Been Proven Safe Nor Effective
The healthcare industry has preemptively embraced the use of AI across many
elements of clinical care. AI technology is being used with the stated purpose to
enhance diagnostic accuracy, personalize treatment plans and accelerate drug
discovery.2 While these goals are admirable, accelerating the adoption of AI
should not come at the cost of safety. A robust regulatory framework is needed
to ensure AI has been tested and proven safe and effective for patient care
before implementation, the same way we regulate medical devices, treatments,
and medications. Additionally, the regulatory framework must ensure workers
have the right to be consulted and engaged on all policies, procedures, and best
practices surrounding the implementation of AI. Union workers must have the
opportunity to bargain over whether and how technology should be
implemented in the workplace before it is selected or deployed in a health care
setting to ensure the technology is not accelerating job displacement or
deskilling the workforce.
When employers prioritize profit over patients and the frontline employees, care
quality suffers. This is why we share the broad concerns that healthcare
providers are adopting untested and unregulated AI in clinical settings. This
includes, for example, prescription renewal tools released by Utah’s state
government, which partnered with Doctronic,2 as well as AI systems used to
deny patient claims without human oversight.3 These practices expose patients
and healthcare workers to unnecessary risk. AI systems must be tested before
and during use to reduce dangers and dangerous directives that harm workers
and patients. As the agency evaluates how to oversee responsible AI adoption in
clinical care, it must actively solicit input from healthcare practitioners, clinical
care workers, patients and their advocates, and unions, who are the end-users
most affected by these technologies. Healthcare workers’ knowledge and
experience should inform healthcare regulations and AI best practices. Their
voices are critical to holding the AI developers and healthcare employers
accountable before these unproven technologies are unleashed on patients and
healthcare workers.
2 Madeline North, “7 ways AI is transforming healthcare,” World Economic Forum, August 13, 2025,
https://www.weforum.org/stories/2025/08/ai-transforming-global-health/

Centering Workers and Patients Prior to the Adoption of AI in Healthcare
The public interest will be best served by a healthcare system that supports the
working conditions of healthcare professionals and equips them with the tools,
including AI technologies, that are designed to assist, rather than replace, their
clinical expertise in delivering widely accessible, affordable, and high-quality
patient care. It is critical as the Department evaluates the adoption of AI into
healthcare services that workers voices’ are front-and-center in the AI
development and implementation process from the onset of R&D through its
delivery to patients. Department policy should support collective bargaining and
worker consultation in the adoption of AI and other emerging technologies.
Workers are the experts on their jobs and workplaces, and are best positioned to
identify risks and guardrails needed. Union workers must have the opportunity to
bargain over whether and how technology should be implemented in the
workplace before it is selected or deployed in a health care setting to ensure the
technology is not accelerating job displacement or deskilling the workforce.
Where workers have agreed to participate in a labor-management committee to
address delivery of care issues, such entities can be a vehicle for ensuring
meaningful input into implementation issues on an ongoing basis.
We urge HHS to use its authority to help ensure that any adoption and use of AI
in clinical care follows a worker and patient-centered approach. First and
foremost, healthcare workers must retain their autonomy while providing care.3,
4 A robust regulatory framework would include implementing strong and
enforceable rules that protect clinicians and nurses' right to exercise professional
judgment and override decisions made by AI or other novel technologies when
clinically appropriate, without fear of retaliation. Further, to support
high-quality clinical care, healthcare workers must have access to training and
education informing them of how AI tools in their workplace function as well as
their limitations and potential biases. Additionally, patients and health care
workers must retain the right to transparency and privacy in the health care data
that is being collected about them, what purpose it serves, where it is stored, and
whether it is being sold or shared.
Institutions must provide ongoing training and informed consent by way of
opt-in process of patients and healthcare staff to ensure everyone understands
the benefits and risks of technologies being deployed.5 The Department should
3 Yasmin Khorram and Ruth Reader, "Artificial intelligence begins prescribing medication in Utah,”
PoliticoPro, January 6, 2026,
https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2026/01/artificial-intelligence-begins-prescribing-medications-in-ut
ah-00709122.
4 Paige Nong, Julia Adler-Milstein, Nate C. Apathy, A. Jay Holmgren, and Jordan Everson, “Current Use
And Evaluation Of Artificial Intelligence And Predictive Models In US Hospitals,” Health Affairs (January,
2025). https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/full/10.1377/hlthaff.2024.00842?journalCode=hlthaff.
5 American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO, “Workers’ Rights And Ethical Use of Artificial Intelligence In
Healthcare,” American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO, accessed February 4, 2026.
https://www.aft.org/resolution/workers-rights-and-ethical-use-artificial-intelligence-healthcare.

consult all affected stakeholders, including unions, and patient advocates, to
develop education and training programs that integrate AI in ways that enhance
working conditions rather than disrupt or displace care delivery.
Unregulated AI Uses Could Deliver Worse Clinical Outcomes
Without robust AI guardrails, the healthcare system risks worsening
access to care, and harming patient outcomes by deploying untested and
unregulated AI in clinical settings. Unlike licensed healthcare
professionals, AI systems are often not subject to medical certification,
professional discipline, or are required to operate under ethical
obligations equivalent to a human care provider. As a result, AI systems
cannot be assumed to self-regulate or reliably communicate risk,
particularly to individuals without medical training. These limitations
explain why AI, when used independently of professional oversight,
cannot consistently meet baseline expectations of clinical care; it cannot
synthesize interactive patient data, exercise contextual judgement, or
adapt treatment decisions through meaningful follow-up.6 HHS must
establish a robust regulatory framework that requires rigorous testing of
deployed algorithms for bias and fairness, holding AI systems to
standards comparable to certified clinicians, and enforcing oversight
mechanisms that hold developers and deployers accountable for
unintended consequences of their implementation.7
As new AI tools are increasingly introduced into clinical settings, stakeholders
warn that poorly designed or weakly enforced applications can reduce care
quality and increase strain on healthcare workers. For example, a Virginia Tech
study found AI models used for in-hospital mortality prediction failed to
recognize 66 percent of injuries.7 In such cases, AI systems missed signs of
patient deterioration that clinicians would have likely identified. AI also causes
harm when it generates automated care plans that fail to reflect individual patient
needs. In another instance, a healthcare worker at Dignity Health in Henderson,
Nevada, reported that an AI system incorrectly flagged a newly admitted patient
for sepsis treatment when the patient actually required dialysis care.8 Only timely
6 Geoffrey A. Fowler, “We found what you’re asking ChatGPT about health. A doctor scored its answers,”
The Washington Post, November 18, 2025,
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2025/11/18/chatgpt-health-advice-accuracy-rated/.
7 National Nurses United, “Nurses and Patients’ Bill of Rights: Guiding Principles for A.I. Justice in
Nursing and Health Care,” National Nurses United, accessed February, 4, 2025,
https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/sites/default/files/nnu/documents/0424_NursesPatients-BillOfRights_
Principles-AI-Justice_flye r.pdf.
8 Barbara L. Micale, “Machine learning models fail to detect key health deteriorations, Virginia Tech
research shows,” Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, March 11, 2025,
https://news.vt.edu/articles/2025/02/virginia-tech-study-published-in-communications-medicine-.html#:~:text
=University%20Photo%2
0Library-,Machine%20learning%20models%20fail%20to%20detect%20key%20health%20deteriorations%2
C%20.

human intervention prevented a catastrophic misdiagnosis and serious patient
harm.
These failures underscore AI’s limitations in clinical judgement, assessing
urgency, recognizing emotional distress, and adapting care through follow-up
questioning; capabilities that are central to high-quality caregiving. The
prevailing response to these limitations among AI developers and deployers is to
over-rely on “human-in-the-loop” approaches to AI safety that place the
burden–and the liability–of verifying the accuracy and efficacy of AI, rather than
rigorous testing, monitoring, and regulation of the technology. The additional
work required to review and correct the outputs of AI tools used in applications
like scribing, charting, and patient communications can negate any promised
efficiencies or even take more time away from direct patient care and potentially
undermine patient outcomes. A study at the University of California, San Diego
showed that clinicians spent almost 22% more time reviewing and drafting
responses to patient messages after the introduction of a generative AI patient
communication tool.9
Deploying AI systems that have not been sufficiently tested or validated raises
questions about whether these tools can reliably support the level of care patients
receive from healthcare workers. Although healthcare workers have used AI for
decades, primarily as a clinical decision-support tool; clinical care is increasingly
shifting AI’s role towards substituting for human judgement.10 As National
Nurses United has highlighted, “the entire ecosystem is designed to automate,
de-skill, and ultimately replace caregivers.”11 This is a concern, because existing
regulatory frameworks do not adequately distinguish between assistive
technologies and systems that operate with limited or no human oversight. Dr.
John Whyte, CEO and Executive Vice President of the American Medical
Association, voiced this concern when discussing Utah’s pilot program allowing
AI-enabled prescription renewal services, warning that “while AI has limitless
opportunity to transform medicine for the better, without physician input it also
poses serious risks to patients and physicians alike.”12 These risks include failures
to recognize nuanced clinical factors, such as signs of substance use disorder or
emotional distress, that clinicians routinely assess.
9 Tai-Seale M, Baxter SL, Vaida F, et al. AI-Generated Draft Replies Integrated Into Health Records and
Physicians’ Electronic Communication. JAMA Netw Open. 2024;7(4):e246565.
doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.6565
10 Hirani, Rahim, et al. "Artificial Intelligence and Healthcare: A Journey through History, Present
Innovations, and Future Possibilities." Life, vol. 14, no. 5, 2024, p. 557. https://doi.org/10.3390/life14050557.
11 Matthew Perrone, “As Ai nurses reshape hospital care, human nurses are pushing back,” The Associated
Press, March 16, 2025,
https://apnews.com/article/artificial-intelligence-ai-nurses-hospitals-health-care-3e41c0a2768a3b4c5e002270
cc2abe23.
12 Geoffrey A. Fowler, “We found what you’re asking ChatGPT about health. A doctor scored its answers,”
The Washington Post, November 18, 2025,
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2025/11/18/chatgpt-health-advice-accuracy-rated/.

Beyond clinical settings, the growing visibility of AI-generated health
information online further threatens patient trust and public health literacy.13
AI-generated content often appears to carry medical endorsement despite
lacking professional review, promoting everything from untested weight-loss
supplements to unsafe medical advice. In one reported case, a man was
hospitalized for poisoning after asking ChatGPT for advice on reducing salt
from his diet.14 These incidents demonstrate that users increasingly place their
trust in AI-generated health information, highlighting the need for clear
standards, transparency, and accountability, particularly when such information
may promote unproven or unsafe treatments.
AI Is Being Used to Reduce Access and Affordability, and Perpetuate
Disparities
The use of AI to determine access to healthcare services raises significant
policy concerns. As AI systems are becoming more prevalent in assessing
healthcare coverage and insurance utilization, it is vital that AI is not used to
make health care coverage decisions. These decisions require clinical expertise
and an understanding of individual circumstances, context that automated
systems alone cannot adequately capture. American patients are highly aware of
how these tools can be misused to deny claims and reduce healthcare coverage:
a Quinnipiac survey conducted in 2025 on AI shows that 71 percent of
Americans feel uncomfortable with the use of AI tools in claims screening and
decision-making.15 And yet, despite this skepticism, commercial insurers
continue to integrate AI into utilization management and claims processing.16
Although AI technologies are often promoted as tools to ensure fairness and
consistency, their design frequently relies on insurers’ historical data. A Stanford
Health study found that provider-facing tools predict the likelihood that a denied
claim can be successfully appealed by relying on past outcomes of appeals for
that service type.17 Rather than evaluating the clinical merits of an individual case,
these tools often reproduce prior approval and denial patterns. This approach
raises concerns in the context of the recently implemented Wasteful and
Inappropriate Service Reduction (WISeR) model, which uses AI to refine the
13 Ibid.
14 Audrey Eichenberger, MD, Stephen Thielke, MD, Adam Van Buskirk, MD,. “A Case of Bromism
Influenced by Use of Artificial Intelligence,” Annals of Internal Medicine Clinical Cases, August 5, 2025,
https://www.acpjournals.org/doi/10.7326/aimcc.2024.1260.
15 Quinnipiac University, “The Age Of Artificial Intelligence: Americans Wary Of Impact On Daily Life, See
Harm To Education, Benefits To Medical Advances, Quinnipiac University National Poll Finds; Americans
Expect AI Will Cause Job Losses But Workers Don't Think Their Own Jobs Will Disappear,” Quinnipiac
University, April 16, 2025, https://poll.qu.edu/poll-release?releaseid=3923.
16 Michelle M. Mello, Artem A. Tortsyuk, Abdoul Jalil Djiberou Mahamadou, and Danton Char, “The AI
Arms Race In Health Insurance Utilization Review: Promises Of Efficiency And Risks Of Supercharged
Flaws,” Health Affairs, January, 2026, https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/10.1377/hlthaff.2025.00897.
17 Ibid.

prior authorization process for traditional fee-for-service Medicare. The WISeR
model is designed to “reduc[e] fraud, waste (including low-value care), and abuse
in Medicare fee-for-service” by flagging claims for services that may not meet
existing coverage requirements.18 The concern is that this model may foster
perverse incentives. Tech companies that voluntarily participate may receive
financial compensation linked to their share of “averted expenditures,” reducing
incentives to closely evaluate model accuracy, test for bias, or monitor changes in
performance over time, as long as the model is generating profit.19 These systems
rely on fixed standards and historical datasets that can potentially be inaccurate in
accounting for social determinants of health, recognizing evolving clinical
guidelines, and acknowledging recent policy changes.20 Used as intended, AI use
cases in eligibility and coverage may be generating incorrect outputs with real
world consequences.21
Recent studies have also pointed to a connection between AI utilization and
exacerbation of the racial disparities that already plague the health system. This
raises fundamental questions about whether AI deployment can meaningfully
improve affordability and access to care, or whether it risks reinforcing existing
barriers within the healthcare system, worsening existing healthcare access gaps.
AI Innovation Should Not Be Used to Worsen Healthcare Workplace
Conditions
Employers often deploy AI-enabled tools without providing adequate support or
protections, leaving workers to absorb the harms. AI systems increasingly
quantify nursing workloads and patient acuity (complexity of care required), and
healthcare organizations use these metrics to drive staffing decisions and
nurse-to-patient assignments. This approach can lead to chronic understaffing and
worker burnout, because acuity measurements rely on real-time RN charting–a
process shaped more by institutional norms, patterns of convenience, and
subjective judgment than by actual clinical needs.22 To automate this process
without solving for the significance of these independent variables creates
staffing imbalances and declines in full care coverage.
18 “Medicare Program; Implementation of Prior Authorization for Select Services for the Wasteful and
Inappropriate Services Reduction (WISeR) Model,” 90 F.R. 28749 (proposed July 1, 2025).
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2025-07-01/pdf/2025-12195.pdf.
19 “Medicare Program; Implementation of Prior Authorization for Select Services for the Wasteful and
Inappropriate Services Reduction (WISeR) Model,” 90 F.R. 28749 (proposed July 1, 2025).
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2025-07-01/pdf/2025-12195.pdf.
20 Lorenzo Belenguer, “AI bias: exploring discriminatory algorithmic decision-making models and
the application of possible machine-centric solutions adapted from the pharmaceutical industry,”
National Library of Medicine, February, 10, 2022,
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8830968/#CR71.
21 Michelle M. Mello, Artem A. Tortsyuk, Abdoul Jalil Djiberou Mahamadou, and Danton Char, “The AI
Arms Race In Health Insurance Utilization Review: Promises Of Efficiency And Risks Of Supercharged
Flaws,” Health Affairs, January, 2026, https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/10.1377/hlthaff.2025.00897.
22 Heather Cathro, “A practical guide to making patient assignments in acute care,” J Nurs
Adm, January, 2013. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23232175/.

Rather than producing a fully scheduled workforce, this automation has helped
create a gig-work model in healthcare. App-based platforms are changing the
working conditions in clinical settings by pressuring healthcare professionals to
bid against one another to fill hospital shifts, often at the lowest possible rate.23
Rather than optimizing access to care, these models are being used to reduce
labor costs and undercut healthcare workers’ rights, leading to chronic
understaffing, decreased job security, erosion of patient care, and reduced
benefits. In this emerging model for care, patients pay the ultimate price, with
longer wait times at hospitals and reduced access to high-quality care.24
Technology is no substitute for appropriate staffing levels for all health care
workers that are necessary to ensure the highest standards of safety and care for
both workers and patients. A policy framework that centers on quality, workers’
right to safety, and workforce sustainability is critical to ensure AI contributes
positively to patient care rather than undermining it.
AI Guardrails Protect Patients and Workers
We are concerned that, on net, untested and unregulated AI can diminish the
reputation of high-quality and safe US healthcare. The integration of AI into
healthcare affects both the sustainability and integrity of the healthcare
profession. When thoughtfully designed and implemented, AI technologies can
support clinicians and improve care quality. However, when organizations
prioritize speed, cost savings or perverse, economically-motivated objectives
over clinical validation and workforce engagement, they create real risks to
patient safety and outcomes. Deploying technologies without proper validation
can lead to diagnostic errors, missed conditions, or delayed care often because
health care providers spend time correcting the misrepresentation or misdiagnosis
by AI, pulling providers away from direct patient care, worsening quality care
and threatening the reputation of the American healthcare system.
Given the high-stakes nature of clinical care, patient trust depends on
professional judgement and accountability. If AI systems are perceived as
unreliable or insufficiently tested, patients may delay seeking medical attention
or lose faith in our healthcare system. Strong guardrails are absolutely essential to
holding the healthcare industry accountable for the quality and affordability of its
services. To promote responsible innovation, we urge the Department to
recognize that acceleration of AI in healthcare without strong guardrails is
dangerous to patients and workers. At minimum, the Department must implement
policies and regulations requiring mandatory, pre-market testing and approval of
any AI system to ensure that it is safe, effective, therapeutic, and equitable, and
23 Katie J. Wells, and Funda Ustek Spilda, “Uber for Nursing: How an AI-Powered Gig Model Is
Threatening Health Care,” Roosevelt Institute, December 17, 2024,
https://rooseveltinstitute.org/publications/uber-for-nursing/.
24 Katie J. Wells, and Funda Ustek Spilda, “Uber for Nursing: How an AI-Powered Gig Model Is
Threatening Health Care,” Roosevelt Institute, December 17, 2024,
https://rooseveltinstitute.org/publications/uber-for-nursing/.

holding AI developers and healthcare service providers accountable for misuses
or harms to patients and workers. Likewise, the Department must put in place
supervisory and enforcement standards that maintain comparable safety standards
between AI systems and human healthcare providers. Responsible innovation
that is safe and reliable must be implemented through a worker- and
patient-centered approach. Accordingly, through the lifecycle of AI systems,
healthcare workers’ voice should be incorporated into AI governance, including
pre-decisional worker consultation and consent, worker-centered audits and
assessments, transparency, human-in-the-loop processes, the right to human
review, opt-out/override options, whistleblower protections, and liability shields
for workers.
Thank you for this opportunity to comment on policy strategies for AI
adoption in healthcare.
Sincerely,
Jody Calemine
Director, Government Affairs, AFL-CIO
Ed Wytkind
Senior Advisor, AFL-CIO Technology Institute