June 16, 2025 The Honorable Mehmet Oz Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health & Human Services Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC) My name is Tomas Moran and I am a healthcare consultant. I served as Senior Director of Quality and Planning at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation (PAMF) through 2009, where I managed the entire analytic workspace. During that time, I was a national speaker at the American Medical Group Association’s annual conferences and chaired the then-newly-formed Quality Council in 2008. Prior to that, I served as Associate Director of Quality at Stanford University Health System (1989-1999), where I also wrote the software for and managed one of the ﬁrst clinical lab computer systems (1979-1989) in the United States. Most recently, my Company ran a Health Information Exchange in the Kansas City region through 2017. And from 2017 through the present, we designed and installed a value-based payment system for the Jackson County Mental Health Fund. As a engineering graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1976, I brought much of that discipline into healthcare operation, particularly in the area of healthcare information and quality improvement methodologies. During my career in healthcare – going into my ﬁfth decade – I have seen the promise of empowering the patient and the provider with timely and complete information fall ﬂat on its face many times. It is clear to me – as well as many of my colleagues – that the traditional approach to liberating health information has failed largely because the system, which includes the entire economic sphere of the health care industry, does not want it to work in that manner. We have seen the pernicious eaects of “data blocking”, a tactic used by health systems to make the ﬂow of information more diaicult if it is going outside of its “network”. The promise that more advances in protocols such as FHIR – in all its ﬂavors – will solve interoperability is not to be believed. I was there when HL7, FHIR’s precursor, made the same promise. Those of us who have worked in health systems or had to interact with the health insurance industry regarding data know that the problem will not be solved until the time that the one entity who cares most to bring interoperability to the medical record is allowed to control it: the patient. 
We are in a very opportune moment, when actions by CMS can lead to a real breakthrough in record interoperability. The conﬂuence of the passage of its Cures Act and the advent of large-language models open new avenues through which to pursue real portability of records, which was – at least theoretically – a goal of the HIPAA law that I helped to impement at PAMF . Therefore, my request to you is simple: that you pursue policies and make regulations that facilitate that any electronic document provided to a patient through a portal which forms part of the patient’s record will be recognized as a legal copy of such document provided that the integrity and provenance of such document can be established by standard security methods. We have assembled a team of clinicians, informaticists, and patient advocates who can take it from there. We are prepared to build an industry based on trust – akin to our ﬁnancial institutions -- that will facilitate true innovation while preserving the individual patient’s right to control their own data. We will be happy to provide a more detailed brieﬁng to your staa if you are interested in our approach. -- Tomas Moran Principal Tomas Moran & Associates LLC TomasM@moran-associates.com 650-799-0008 