June 16,2025

The Honorable Mehmet Oz

Administrator

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health & Human Services

Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CM5-0042-NC)

My name is Tomas Moran and | ama healthcare consultant. | served as Senior Director of
Quality and Planning at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation (PAMF) through 2009, where |
managed the entire analytic workspace. During that time, | was a national speaker at the
American Medical Group Association's annual conferences and chaired the then-newly-
formed Quality Councilin 2008. Prior to that, | served as Associate Director of Quality at
Stanford University Health System (1989-1999), where | also wrote the software for and
managed one of the first clinical lab computer systems (1979-1989) in the United States.
Most recently, my Company ran a Health Information Exchange in the Kansas City region
through 2077. And from 2077 through the present, we designed and installed a value-
based payment system for the Jackson County Mental Health Fund.

As a engineering graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1976, |
brought much of that discipline into healthcare operation, particularly in the area of
healthcare information and quality improvement methodologies. During my career in
healthcare = going into my fifth decade —| have seen the promise of empowering the patient
and the provider with timely and complete information fall flat on its face many times. It is
clear to me -as well as many of my colleagues = that the traditional approach to liberating
health information has failed largely because the system, which includes the entire
economic sphere of the health care industry, does not want it to work in that manner. We
have seen the pemicious effects of “data blocking”, a tactic used by health systems to
make the flow of infonmation more difficult if itis going outside of its “network”.

The promise that more advances in protocols such as FHIR =in all its flavors -will solve
interoperability is not to be believed. | was there when HL’, FHIR’s precursor, made the
same promise. Those of us who have worked in health systems or had to interact with the
health insurance industry regarding data know that the problem will not be solved until the
time that the one entity who cares most to bring interoperability to the medical record is
allowed to controlit: the patient.
