June 16, 2025
Stephanie Carlton Thomas Keane
Deputy Administrator Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services National Coordinator for Health IT
US Department of Health and Human Services US Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, SW 200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20201 Washington, DC 20201
RE: Remote Patient Monitoring in the Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Ms. Carlton and Mr. Keane,
Remote Physiologic Monitoring (RPM) creates access to real-time data, empowering Americans, especially
those in rural areas, to take accountability for their health in partnership with their clinicians. Patients
appreciate building knowledge and self-management capability through the use of RPM tools. We
welcome the conversation on how connected health technologies can generate and leverage data to
deliver meaningful results for patients, consumers, and taxpayers. We look forward to working with
CMS and ASTP to improve the current infrastructure to increase beneficiary access to effective digital
capabilities needed to make informed health decisions, and increase data availability for all
stakeholders contributing to health outcomes.
The Remote Monitoring Leadership Council
The Remote Monitoring Leadership Council is a new collaborative of seven, innovative companies
operating across all 50 states and collectively offering a large percentage of all remote monitoring and care
management services being delivered to Medicare beneficiaries. In addition to advancing patient access
to these important tools, we have agreed to promote best practices and standards for the delivery of RPM
services. Our companies are collecting vast amounts of patient data that is provided to both patients and
treating providers. Efficacy in our field requires that we solve for interoperability and ensure the rapid
movement of highly-curated data to the clinical care team, who uses it to make crucial treatment
decisions. Our capabilities should be a top use case for efforts to unlock data from the point of care and
make it more available for treatment.
Empowering Patients with Data Through RPM
The first Trump Administration took decisive action to expand Medicare access RPM in 2019, laying the
groundwork for technology-enabled chronic disease management and transforming how care is delivered
to seniors. Since 2020, RPM has shown strong clinical outcomes for many Medicare beneficiaries in need
of interventions to prevent unnecessary and costly emergency department and hospitalization episodes.
In addition to driving better clinical and cost outcomes, RPM creates transparency for these seniors on
how their efforts to self-manage chronic conditions are progressing. The ability to see data on their
conditions strengthens opportunities for personal accountability and lifestyle changes that they are
working to advance alongside their clinicians. This capability is particularly important for individuals who
may have more difficulty regularly accessing health care like rural seniors.
1

The biometric data collected through RPM requires clinical and technical expertise to make sense of for
practitioners and the health system. Data systems must be built to capture and interpret data, generate
reports, send alerts, and transmit data to appropriate electronic health records (EHR) and partners – which
can be an expensive and challenging task. Support staff must be available to troubleshoot device and
software issues for patients, engage patients and encourage data submission, and provide other sorts of
assistance.
Leaders in the RPM space are moving toward models that leverage AI to fully realize the potential of the
detailed patient data captured through RPM. AI is helping to detect conditions sooner, to lessen the
paperwork/documentation burden on clinicians, and streamline the delivery of care. Actions from CMS to
specifically support data and technology costs are crucial to unlocking the potential of advanced data
capabilities like artificial intelligence alongside RPM.
Additionally, RPM captures and incorporates the inherent complexity in the patients themselves -- either
complex conditions in the post-acute space, or a senior at home managing multiple chronic conditions
concurrently. A remote monitoring provider who has taken responsibility for a patient’s chronic condition
becomes the de facto manager of all of that patient’s urgent and chronic conditions – as we have a
responsibility to track and respond to any change in vital readings that we see. This means that we often
go above and beyond in serving patients who are experiencing symptoms of a different condition than the
one we are explicitly monitoring for.
Opportunities for Improving Infrastructure
As CMS and ASTP/ONC look at modernizing data infrastructure, we request CMS and ASTP/ONC to
- Review the necessary capabilities of a top-tier RPM program, which includes capturing costs
related to the software and technology required to deliver these services at scale.
- Account for average patient complexity in coding for RPM, as consumers with co-morbid
conditions are more complex to treat. Relevant to this RFI, this complexity requires that data
captured for a complex patient receiving RPM be shared with a broader care team through
multiple data streams to relevant care providers, when appropriate.
The current Medicare fee-for-service payment structure does not accurately capture the costs of providing
high-quality RPM services with robust data capabilities. While some may have envisioned RPM as requiring
no more than a simple device that captures data, the delivery of an effective RPM program today is far
more complex and has different costs.
Data integrations are crucial to enabling effective care management through RPM. CMS should recognize
and capture the significant software costs and resources expended on platform interoperability and
maintenance by software engineers and data experts. Rather than relying on periodic, arbitrary check-ins,
RPM creates continuity of care through an ongoing line of communication that enables timely discussions
and proactive outreach. Clinical staff providing high-quality RPM don’t wait to find out about a sudden
blood sugar spike or weight gain—they see it and reach out to the patient and, as appropriate, the qualified
health care practitioner. RPM also helps identify inconsistent medication adherence, driving timely, data-
informed decisions that improve outcomes. Patients often report a greater sense of security and a stronger
2

bond with their clinical care team, who has a stronger connection to their well-being, as a result of this
remote connection.
Data captured by RPM should create opportunities for both care teams and patients to monitor vitals and
use this information to support the care plan. Patients often report increased self-efficacy as they gain
metacognitive feedback from seeing their data trends over time and understanding how medication
adherence and lifestyle choices impact their health. All RPM should include appropriate use of clinical staff
to support continuity of care and ensure ongoing patient engagement. These clinicians serve as health
care liaisons to build patient knowledge and self-management capability, which has been consistently
shown to improve clinical outcomes.
CMS’ 2019 Data at the Point of Care API pilot, which gave providers access to claims data for Medicare FFS
beneficiaries they treat, is a prime example of the high-quality RPM services we promise to our patients.
As patients move throughout the health care journey, providers need real-time data to create responsive,
tailored care plans.
We look forward to continuing the discussion on how CMS and ASTP/ONC can create an environment
where beneficiaries receive high-quality technology-enabled care like RPM services and fully leverage the
power of data and artificial intelligence to maximize their potential. Please reach out to Rikki Cheung
(rcheung@sironastrategies.com) with any additional questions.
Respectfully,
Remote Monitoring Leadership Council
3