McKinsey & Company, Inc. Washington D.C. has prepared the following comments to the
CMS Request for Information on Improving Technology to Empower Medicare Beneficiaries.
Our comments cover questions related to Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and
Networks and select questions related to the Nationwide Provider Directory.
Technology Vendors, Data Providers, and Networks
TD-1. What short term (in the next 2 years) and longer-term steps can CMS take to
stimulate developer interest in building digital health products for Medicare
beneficiaries and caregivers?
To capture developer interest in building digital health products CMS should focus on three
main phases of community cultivation: Attraction, Development, and Retention.
Attraction:
There are several well-understood activities to attract developers and build a contextual
community around your tool stack and problem domain. The following steps have worked
well for technical start-ups and open-source coding projects to court contributors and users.
1. Compelling Vision: Fundamentally developers want to solve challenging and meaningful
problems. You need to present them with a compelling vision and give them a role within
it.
2. Frictionless Onboarding: A developer should be able to download a starter kit tuned for
their favorite tech stack (e.g., support for popular programming languages, and application
frameworks) and get it running on their local machine with little to no effort. This “time to
first win” is essential because the developers need to feel they are getting more value
back than they are investing to understand your platform.
3. Clear documentation and tutorials: Once the developer has had their first positive
experience, it is essential you provide well-written, easy-to-follow documentation,
including tutorials, guides, and APIs for the more advanced features of your system.
4. Recognized Contributions: If you accept contributions back to your source code then
celebrate the contributions from your community. This can take the form of blog posts,
bug bounties, or project showcases. It is important that developers feel that they are
authentic and valued members of the community.
5. Continued Releases: Developers will abandon projects which feel like they are losing
momentum. Once the brain drain starts it can be difficult to course correct because it
becomes a negative feedback loop. One way to mitigate this is to continue to push
development updates, accept community software patches, and share the vision of the
product through blog posts and videos.
Development:
Once you have onboarded developers into your tech ecosystem you will want to build their
capabilities and encourage communities of support to flourish. This will allow individuals to
upskill past the basics and build domain knowledge on the various healthcare problems.
There are several ways to promote capability building and community development:
1. Expert Advice: Establishing a community-driven advisory board comprising experienced
developers, healthcare professionals, and industry experts.
2. Platforms for collaboration: Creating online forums, social media groups, or Slack
channels where developers can share ideas, ask questions, and collaborate on projects.
1

3. Training on nuanced topics: Regular training sessions, workshops, or webinars that
provide developers with hands-on experience working with Medicare data sources and
healthcare APIs.
4. Mentorship Programs: CMS can establish mentorship programs that pair experienced
developers with junior developers or startups working on Medicare-related projects.
Retention
In the long term to retain your development community you must give them a mission, and
the financial opportunities to do this work full-time. CMS can operationalize this in several
ways:
1. Direct Investment: CMS can provide financial incentives to developers directly in the
form of grants, scholarships, or other means (e.g., subsidizing hardware, software
purchases)
2. Incubator and Accelerator Partnerships: CMS can find and or partner with incubators
and accelerators that focus on healthcare technology investments to provide resources,
funding, and expertise to startups and small businesses developing digital health
products.
3. Community Involvement: Developers want to know their work is having impact. Giving
them insights into how their efforts are improving patient lives is important.
4. Industry Collaboration: CMS can engage with industry partners to identify areas where
digital health solutions can make a significant impact, such as improving care coordination
or streamlining clinical workflows.
TD-2. Regarding CMS Data, to stimulate developer interest—
a. What additional data would be most valuable if made available through CMS APIs?
Apart from Medicare Part C claims and Medicaid claims for Dual Eligible beneficiaries, other
data elements about beneficiaries would be valuable.
• Value-Based Care Program Information – Providing up-to-date rosters of ACOs,
bundled payment initiatives, and other value-based care programs would facilitate
research into these programs – e.g., beneficiaries served, geographic reach, growth
over time, etc.
• Member Chronic Condition and Risk Profile Information – Providing Calculated
HCC risk scores and chronic condition flags (Leveraging the CMS Chronic Condition
Warehouse definitions) would enable a way for care managers, providers, and
caregivers to have an immediate view of a member’s risk profile and care needs
taking into account all of the available comprehensive historical data that CMS has,
without the need to compile claims history from multiple sources (i.e. different blue
button APIs if a member moves across Traditional Medicare and MA plans year over
year).
• Standardized assessment files – Providing Assessment files such as the Minimum
Data Set (MDS) and Outcome and Assessment Information Set (OASIS) include
information about the functional capabilities of beneficiaries in nursing homes or
receiving home care. Making this data available would aid quality measurement and
care planning.
2

b. What data sources are most valuable alongside the data available through the Blue
Button 2.0 API?
The primary goal of the Blue Button API is to enable the creation of applications and services
that benefit Medicare enrollees. As such, there are three enhancements to the current API
and data available that could provide immediate value:
1. Create a unified API across Medicare Parts A, B, C, and D - the most valuable
enhancement to Blue Button would be to create a single comprehensive source that
includes all Medicare claims, across Traditional Medicare, Medicare Advantage, and
Medicare Part D. This single addition would make available data much more
complete for the ~35 million Americans enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan.
2. Decrease data lag – Make claims available as timely as possible, perhaps by making
data updates weekly or even daily, and providing submitted but not yet adjudicated
claims soon after they are received (this can provide many of the benefits of EHI data
without adding any additional technical requirements, since it could be received
through existing centralized claims data channels).
3. Provide Medicaid Details for Dual Eligible Members - Medicaid claims for the ~12
million Americans dually enrolled in Medicare and Medicaid would be valuable.
Because Dual Eligibles often have complex healthcare needs, getting a complete
picture of their treatment history is especially worthwhile. Without Medicaid claims,
developers and users have no insight into important services that may be solely
covered by Medicaid (e.g., nursing home care and personal care services).
Incomplete data hinders care coordination and other functions. As a first step, simply
confirming the type of dual coverage they have (and the Medicaid MCO name if
applicable), could provide immediate benefits to care coordination for providers. CMS
already has the data elements and linkages in place to do this in the VRDC, so the
technical barriers should be minimal.
c. What obstacles prevent accessing these data sources today?
The specific obstacles that prevent access vary by data source, but broadly, this data is
siloed in different locations. Medicare Part C claims are often available via API from
individual Medicare Advantage payers, but no standardized, single API exists for all plans.
More importantly, while the ability to access raw feeds from these sources is straightforward,
the amount of effort to get to the first useful analysis leveraging these data is very high due to
the technical challenges of compiling data from across many sources as well as
standardizing, linking, and enriching.
d. What other APIs should CMS and ASTP/ONC consider including in program policies
to unleash innovation and support patients and providers?
As the Value Based Care environment matures and becomes more sophisticated, providers
require additional support from payers and health tech companies to ensure they are able to
identify and take action on important clinical events outside of their direct care, often
requiring the buildout of a complex network of software systems and data connectors in order
to be able to receive updates on all of their members. CMS could help simplify this landscape
by building a push-based API triggered by the submission of a prior authorization or receipt
of a claim submission for an emergent event (i.e., emergency department, inpatient,
observation, or urgent care visit). CMS could provide a comprehensive, national system to
alert care managers and the patient’s care team when a patient has an emergent event so
3

they can immediately respond to coordinate care. This could help fill in gaps where ADT
alerts through HIEs are not comprehensively available (or where they are not always
triggered, like in an urgent care setting).
Nationwide Provider Directory
PA-4. What would be the value to payers of a nationwide provider directory that
included FHIR end points and used digital identity credentials?
And
TD-5. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints improve access to
health information for patients, providers, and payers? Who should publish such a
directory, and should users bear a cost?
And
VB-15. How could a nationwide provider directory of FHIR endpoints help improve
access to patient data and understanding of claims data sources? What key data
elements would be necessary in a nationwide FHIR endpoints directory to maximize
its effectiveness?
A national provider directory accessible via FHIR endpoint would enable access to timely,
accurate, and consistent information about providers as provider information changes
frequently and thus existing publicly available data sources about providers (e.g., NPPES)
are often outdated or incorrect.
This database could have myriad benefits for stakeholders across the healthcare landscape:
Benefits to patients could include:
Improved access to care - A nationwide provider directory would improve the accuracy of
provider information in member-oriented web/mobile apps that many payers offer. As a
result, patients would be able to find nearby, in-network providers more easily.
Benefits to providers could include:
• Reduced administrative burden – With a national directory, providers would not
have to spend time updating address or specialty information in various payers’
directories, if payers began leveraging these provider FHIR APIs, providers could be
confident that a single update could flow through to all payers and lines of business.
In addition, credentialing could be centralized as well, as CMS already requires
credentialing for providers receiving Medicare payments, they could leverage this
central provider database as a single place to upload proof of medical license and
board certification renewals.
• Improved and simplified referrals - This central repository could provide a single,
accurate source of truth to help providers find appropriate providers to refer to.
Benefits to payers could include:
• Improved network design - More accurate provider data would facilitate meeting
network adequacy requirements, which in turn would ensure members have access
to the care they need.
4

• Reduced administrative burden - Payers spend a tremendous amount of time
credentialing providers. If CMS could also provide a mechanism to confirm providers
credentialing status and appropriate renewal of licenses and board certifications it
would dramatically simplify and reduce costs for payer internal processes and reduce
cost and preventing fraud and waste by more quickly removing providers who have
lost licenses or certifications from receiving payments from managed care plans and
commercial payers.
CMS itself should publish this directory:
• CMS has access to a more comprehensive provider dataset than any other entity. Not
only does it have billing data for all providers contracted with traditional Medicare, but
it also has claims billing records for all MA and Medicaid providers as well through
regulatory reporting channels. And this data not only covers basic demographics,
clinical specialty, and credentialing data, but it also contains critical data about
provider system hierarchies through Tax ID to NPI mappings, and ACO and other
VBC contract details. As health systems continue to get larger and more complex, the
importance of accurate data identifying provider affiliations and relationships is
growing, but the challenges to doing so are growing as well.
• CMS has relationships with nearly all stakeholders in the US healthcare landscape,
making it best positioned to manage the data standardization requirements, and the
likely need for significant coordination among providers, payers, professional boards,
and state governments.
• CMS also has unique levers at its disposal that no other entity has to incentivize
providers to provide updates in a timely fashion through its role as a payer for
Medicare. And for the subset of providers are not core Medicare contractors (notably
providers in Behavioral Health, Vision, Dental, Maternity, and Pediatrics) there would
still be a tremendous incentive to participate, since this dataset would likely become
the single source of truth for most provider directories used by patients for provider
selection and providers for referrals.
• Finally, this dataset could be a powerful tool to further CMS’s mission to prevent fraud
waste and abuse and can be a strong source of partnership with state governments in
such efforts.
5