I have been a Medicare recipient since 2018. For many years I have received medical care from
functional or integrative medicine providers who were not part of a large medical system. Now that I have
been forced into a large medical system, I am not as satisfied with my medical care, but I can’t afford to
pay providers who do not accept Medicare. I pay for an Advantage Plan but a number of the functional
medicine practitioners in my plan have dropped out due to not receiving sufficient reimbursement and the
quality of my care has deteriorated. Medicare needs improvement. I’m not very interested in a Health
Technology Ecosystem because based on the RFI, its all about data. I am a person, not just information,
and I’m more interested in people, including myself, getting their health needs met.
My health information is private. Its my business and its between my health care providers and myself. I
believe in health freedom and I don’t see any reason why the government should be able to acquire my
entire medical history.
Having moved quite a bit, I take my medical records with me and give new providers the records that are
appropriate. I spend a great deal of time identifying practitioners I want to see in a new location. I might
switch practitioners several times before I find a good fit. I would not want all of those previous providers
who I dropped to retain access to my medical records. I am concerned about how widely available my
“data” might become. When I leave a provider’s care, who follows up and discontinues their access to my
data?
It has been my experience that new medical providers spend very little time, if any, with the medical
history that I provide. Due to insurance demands, they have only so much time with each patient and
they don’t seem to read my medical history before seeing me for the first time even though I provide it.
Therefore, I am more concerned about privacy and my information being too widely disseminated than I
am about data exchange. I don’t believe in digital ID. I would be more likely to stop getting health care
within a “system” if I was forced into some type of mandatory digital ID situation. It should be my decision
in each case whether to share my data or allow it to be stored. That information belongs to me, not to the
medical providers I may or may not see again or to the federal government. The decision whether to
participate in some type of information system is my decision.
Thus far, AI has made my life miserable intervening when I’m trying to write an email or popping up
offering assistance with the qualification that the resulting information may or may not be accurate. What
good is that? It’s a hindrance. I was an academic librarian. I am perfectly capable of using my brain to
compose an email and doing my own research to find information. We taught students to use their critical
thinking skills to solve problems and/or information needs. With AI, students will no longer develop critical
thinking skills, but just let it do the work for them. Students think all information is on the Internet anyway
and it was a struggle to get them to use peer-reviewed journals. We are dumbing ourselves down with
technology. Just because AI, or any other technology, is possible in our age of technology worship,
doesn’t mean it’s automatically a good thing.
I am satisfied with the health applications that are available at the various providers I use. It makes me
very uncomfortable when a new provider seems to have information about me that I have not given to
them. That is my personal information. I don’t appreciate that it is shared without my consent. For that
reason, I’m not interested in a single patient portal of any kind that is managed by the government.
The portal that my primary doctor provides already includes duplicated information that has come into the
system from some other source. Some of my medical issues are listed twice using different language.
He doesn’t know it and no one checked it when it came in. It’s a drain on my energy to try to correct it. I
didn’t make the mistake. This technology has added a complication to my life so that I now feel
compelled to check all the information in these portals because it can be incorrect. As long as multiple

medical personnel are adding information to even one portal, there are still likely to be mistakes. I have
seen mistakes in the doctor’s notes a number of times and those are written the same day that I saw the
doctor. Again, just because a new technology is possible, doesn’t mean that it saves time, guarantees
accuracy, or improves people’s lives.
If I see a need for a new doctor to see my xrays or bloodwork results, I provide the report to the doctor
and/or have the digital version sent. I would consider it an invasion of my privacy for that information
such as claims and clinical data, encounter notes, operative reports, appointment schedules, etc. to be
available to a variety of medical providers. I don’t even know what would determine who could see it and
who could not. Why would I ever want my medical claims be available to all my providers? I especially
would not want data recorded by a provider who I did not respect or trust and stopped seeing to be
shared widely with other providers. When I “fire” a doctor, I want them out of my life. How much
information can all these providers take in anyway considering the limited time they have to spend with
patients due to insurance restrictions?
I would prefer that HHS spend its time, resources, and people power improving the Medicare program
rather than focusing so much on technology. As long as many doctors don’t participate in Medicare,
someone should be studying why they don’t. Medicare should engage and include as many functional or
integrative medicine practitioners as possible because prevention of illness and disease saves money in
addition to improving the health of patients. Instead, like all insurance providers, Medicare would rather
approve claims for surgery or drastic interventions than sign up providers who specialize in prevention
and pay them appropriately.
Personally, I haven’t had a great deal of difficulty in having claims denied by Medicare, but I have heard
that others do. If technology can be utilized to prevent this from happening, that would be a good thing. It
would also be helpful if technology could assist with claims being processed more quickly. People living
on a fixed income and dealing with medical issues cannot afford to wait a long time for reimbursement
and do not have the energy to spend hours on the phone with Customer Service to reverse a denied
claim. Because the functional medicine providers I want to see are often out-of-network, I am forced into
a situation of having to pay for the service up front and send in claims for reinbursement. I had an
appointment on May 7 which is over a month ago and I have not yet received the check. The claim has
been approved, but who knows when the check will arrive.
Basically, I believe that any technology utilized should be focused primarily on improving access to and
quality of medical care for patients rather than primarily on collecting data on all Americans. There is
some hidden agenda to collecting all this data which I do not appreciate.