February 23, 2026
Mr. Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
Secretary
Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20201
RE: Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial
Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
The American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) is pleased to respond to this Request for
Information (RFI): Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of
Clinical Care. ACG appreciates the Trump Administration’s request for public input to help
define policy priorities and actions for the deployment and advancement of artificial
intelligence (AI) in the healthcare sector. AI has already been integrated into many aspects
of medical practice, and its role will continue to expand. A typical gastroenterology
practice uses AI in numerous ways, including administrative tasks, diagnosis and
treatment, patient communication, and interactions with payors. Given the rapid pace of
innovation and a lack of consistent policy parameters, a federal framework to guide future
AI-related actions is essential. Below we provide recommendations and strategies to
advance the use of AI for clinical care.
ACG is a physician organization representing gastroenterologists and other
gastrointestinal (GI) specialists. Founded in 1932 and representing over 20,000 GI
clinicians, ACG’s mission is to enhance our members’ ability to provide world-class care to
patients with digestive disorders and to advance the profession through excellence and
innovation, grounded in the pillars of patient care, education, scientific investigation,
advocacy, and practice management. ACG leaders have been actively engaged in
developing AI for GI, working with subject-matter experts in our specialty to harness its
benefits for patient care and address the challenges medical providers and practices face
in achieving this goal.
We recommend addressing the following key barriers in the adoption of AI in the clinical
environment:
1

Reimbursement
• ACG urges the agency to explore and model the implications of implementing
revisions to the definition of “software” for the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule
(PFS).
Regulations
• ACG supports the Administration’s efforts to reduce the regulatory burden on the
development and deployment of AI in the healthcare sector. We urge the
Administration to establish policies that truly reduce the burden and do not merely
shift responsibility for safety and efficacy from the developer to the practicing
clinician or other users of AI-enabled medical technology.
• The current regulatory framework for medical liability related to AI-enabled medical
technology is inadequate and unclear. Policymakers must develop clearer liability
rules and establish liability protections for the use of AI in healthcare.
• ACG recommends that the federal government incorporate proper medical
oversight of AI-enabled technology into any regulatory framework advanced by the
Administration.
Establishing a Reimbursement Pathway
The adoption of AI across the healthcare continuum raises several issues, including the
development of a reimbursement pathway to ensure continued innovation. In
gastroenterology, AI-enabled technology is used for endoscopy, image recognition, clinical
data analysis, and practice management.
The healthcare community’s current challenge is the lack of a methodology to capture the
costs of AI-enabled technologies that may enhance medical treatment. There is a lag
between the development of AI-enabled technology and the establishment of
reimbursement pathways to capture its costs. The absence of a clear reimbursement
pathway discourages innovation and reduces developers’ interest, leaving patients unable
to benefit from these advances. While there will not be a one-size-fits-all reimbursement
solution for AI, reimbursement is essential to sustaining innovation in AI-enabled
technologies and improving adoption of these technologies.
Stakeholders have proposed and CMS has, in limited cases, adopted a solution to
establish a predictable reimbursement pathway for the use of AI-enabled technology in the
Medicare outpatient setting: assigning a new AI-enabled medical device to a new
technology ambulatory payment classification (APC). While the new technology APC is
available, there are limitations in the utility, coupled with uncertainty and unpredictability
that chills adoption. The types of AI-enabled technologies that receive new technology
APCs are often expensive, and absent consistent reimbursement, providers face difficult
2

decisions regarding whether to invest in such technologies. ACG urges CMS to further
explore this option and work with stakeholders to assess its feasibility and potential
unintended consequences.
In contrast, establishing a predictable payment pathway for AI-enabled medical
technology under the Medicare PFS presents unique challenges. CMS has acknowledged
the limitations of the current Medicare PFS in setting rates for AI-enabled CPT codes. The
agency has stated, “… AI applications are not well accounted for [in] our PE methodology
… [we] recognize that practitioners do incur resource costs for purchase and ongoing use
of software.” Similar comments were also made in its 2024 Medicare PFS Final
Regulations.
The traditional Resource-Based Relative Value Scale (RBRVS) was not designed for
software-based, non-human-labor technologies, creating challenges in assigning
appropriate values to AI-enabled medical devices. ACG calls on CMS to work with
stakeholders to identify alternative, formal, and predictable reimbursement pathways for
the Medicare PFS.
CMS has stated that a significant challenge in accounting for the costs of AI-enabled
medical devices stems from its current practice expense (PE) formula for calculating PE
RVUs. Under this formula, AI software (often referred to as “software as service” or SaaS)
is treated as overhead rather than a direct PE expense. As overhead, it is calculated as part
of the indirect PE portion of the PE RVU formula. In fact, the formula treats all software as
overhead. This was appropriate when the formula was developed and based on how
software was used at that time. The role of software in providing medical services has
evolved, and the PE formula should reflect this shift.
CMS has created a workaround by comparing, or “crosswalking,” PE RVUs for AI-enabled
medical devices to codes with similar values to the estimated costs of the AI software.
These estimates are generally based on invoices submitted by stakeholders. In 2026, there
are only three Category I codes with AI-enabled technology, and this solution becomes
less feasible as the number of AI-enabled Category I codes grows.
One potential solution is to revise the current methodology for calculating PE RVUs. In the
definition of software, an exception can be made to treat AI software as a supply rather
than as overhead. As a supply, it would be treated as a direct expense and accounted for
under the direct PE portion of the PE RVU formula. We believe this approach would more
accurately capture the actual costs of AI software and better reflect how it is used in
delivering medical services.
ACG urges the agency to explore and model the implications of revising the definition of
software for the Medicare PFS to more appropriately capture AI-enabled technologies used
in the delivery of healthcare services.
3

Balancing Appropriate Regulatory Oversight, While Supporting Innovation
The adoption of AI across the healthcare continuum raises several regulatory issues, which
emphasizes the need for designing a regulatory framework that truly reduces burden and
does not merely shift responsibility; ensuring transparency about responsibility and
liability in the use of AI when errors occur; and establishing appropriate oversight by
medical professionals in the deployment of AI.
Supporting True Burden Reduction
ACG applauds the Administration for prioritizing administrative burdens on healthcare
providers. We support a regulatory framework for AI-enabled medical technology that
balances the flexibility needed to support innovation with appropriate oversight of evolving
medical technology. For example, the AI regulatory sandboxes announced by President
Trump to accelerate development and minimize federal oversight have great potential to
spur innovation. It is also important that this concept not merely shift the burden of
oversight from the AI technology developer to the AI technology user, or compromise
patient safety.
Appropriate oversight of AI-enabled medical technology, as with other medical
technologies, is needed to ensure it is fair, valid, effective, and safe. Throughout the
technology’s life cycle—from conception to development to implementation to ongoing
maintenance—there are critical roles for the entities involved in each stage (e.g.,
technology developers, distributors, users). As the regulatory framework is designed, the
technology’s entire life cycle and the entities engaged with it should be considered, and
appropriate roles and responsibilities assigned for regulatory oversight.
ACG supports the Administration’s efforts to reduce the regulatory burden on the
development and deployment of AI in the healthcare sector. We urge the Administration to
establish policies that truly reduce the burden and do not merely shift responsibility for
safety and efficacy oversight from the developer to the practicing clinician or other users of
AI-enabled medical technology.
Medical Liability
Like any medical technology, AI-enabled technology carries risks. Given the rapid pace of
AI adoption in the medical field, there is a critical need for clarity and consistency in
determining the responsible use of AI and medical liability when errors occur. The current
regulatory framework for medical liability is inadequate. The development of AI-enabled
technology introduces variables that may not apply in the current environment and raises
new medical-legal issues. Neither patients nor clinicians will feel comfortable using this
technology unless the framework for responsible-use and liability determination is
transparent. Standards for safe use and medical liability must be part of any national
strategy for AI.
4

The current regulatory framework for medical liability related to AI-enabled medical
technology is inadequate and ill-suited to the challenges posed by AI. Policymakers must
develop clearer liability rules for the use of AI in healthcare.
Engagement with Healthcare Professionals
AI-enabled technology by private payers is a growing concern for prior authorization and
other claims-processing activities. AI-enabled prior authorization has the potential to
significantly reduce time-consuming manual tasks for clinicians and payers. Algorithms
can also be used to determine whether requested treatment and submitted justification
documents comply with the plan's medical criteria. Algorithms can be used to triage prior
authorization decision-making to an appropriate reviewer.
While these are appropriate uses for AI, ACG is concerned about using AI to make prior
authorization decisions without human review. Trained medical professionals need to
make these critical medical decisions, which can profoundly affect the trajectory of a
patient’s treatment and health outcomes. There have been real-world examples of payors
making prior authorization decisions using AI-enabled technology without medical
professionals’ review and input. Some states have begun passing legislation to bar this
practice. Federal leadership is needed to set standards for appropriate medical oversight
of AI-enabled technology.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit comments on how the Department of Health and
Human Services can support the rapid adoption and use of AI for clinical care. We hope to
continue to engage with the Administration on this critical issue. Please contact Brad
Conway, Vice President of Public Policy, Coverage & Reimbursement, at 301-263-9000 or
bconway@gi.org with any questions.
5