June 16, 2024
The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
Deputy Administrator and Chief of Staff
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS-0042-NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Submitted Electronically
RE: CMS-0042-NC Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
Dear Assistant Secretary Keane and Deputy Administrator Carlton,
On behalf of our nearly 5,000 member hospitals, health systems and other health care
organizations, our clinician partners — including more than 270,000 affiliated
physicians, 2 million nurses and other caregivers — and the 43,000 health care leaders
who belong to our professional membership groups, the American Hospital Association
(AHA) appreciates the opportunity to provide comment on the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/Office of the
National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC) Request for
Information (RFI) regarding the Health Technology Ecosystem.
We support the agencies’ goals of reducing barriers for data interoperability and
fostering innovation to support better health outcomes. The AHA recognizes the pivotal
role that health technology plays in care delivery today and its potential to transform the
patient and provider experience in the future. From artificial intelligence (AI) to mobile
apps, medical devices to electronic health records (EHRs) — technology supports

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 2 of 18
improvements in quality and efficiency for patients, caregivers and providers. Moreover,
we believe that technology and data interoperability have the potential to address some
of the prevalent challenges confronting the health care ecosystem today, including
provider burnout and staffing shortages driven by administrative burdens. We also
recognize that the innovative applications of health information technology (IT) must be
balanced with reasonable guardrails to protect sensitive patient data and ensure
security and privacy. In addition, while health technology can make care more efficient,
implementing new tools and standards often requires significant financial investment
and workflow changes for health care providers. This makes it critical for policymakers
to ensure that policy changes intended to spur adoption are scoped and paced
sustainably.
The AHA has several recommendations to improve health IT standards and
infrastructure, increase beneficiary access to effective digital health tools, and advance
data availability to improve health outcomes. Specifically, we recommend that CMS and
ASTP/ONC:
• Foster a sustainable pace of standards implementation by continuing to develop
ASTP/ONC’s United States Core Data for Interoperability vocabulary standards
(USCDI), and extending the timeline to transition from USCDI version 3 to
USCDI version 4 by an additional year (through calendar year (CY) 2028).
• Collaborate across agencies to address broader infrastructure challenges
associated with health IT adoption, such as lack of broadband, digital literacy
training and reliable Wi-Fi access for rural and underserved communities.
• Support reimbursement for the use of health technology by clarifying guidance
on digital health and interprofessional consultation billing codes, and develop
pathways to provide provisional payment for new technologies.
• Promote accountability and engagement from payers on interoperability by
requiring that impacted payers adopt and use certified payer application
programming interfaces (APIs) and developing safety and security requirements
for the Provider Directory APIs.
• Repeal provider disincentives in the June 2024 final rule “21st Century Cures
Act: Establishment of Disincentives for Healthcare Providers That Have
Committed Information Blocking.” Under the final rule, hospitals and providers
found to engage in information blocking may face excessive reductions in
payment, which threatens access to services (particularly in rural and
underserved areas).
• Build additional infrastructure to provide oversight for Trusted Exchange
Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA), including establishing an
attestation schedule for all qualified health information networks (QHINs)
• Provide protections to ensure hospitals or health systems that have a QHIN that
is suspended or terminated are not held liable for information blocking claims.

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 3 of 18
• Advance administrative simplification efforts by establishing a standard
transaction for clinical attachments to support claims.
• Streamline current price transparency policies to remove complexity from the
patient experience by focusing on options for patient estimates and other pricing
information. Rely on No Surprises Act good faith estimates (GFEs) and
advanced explanation of benefits (AEOBs) to provide patients with the most
accurate estimates for their courses of care.
• Provide incentives for technology investment to enable providers to transition to
value-based arrangements.
• Revert to previous thresholds (i.e., percentage threshold for the number of
clinicians meeting certified electronic health record requirements) for the
Medicare Shared Savings Program promoting interoperability measures.
There are other areas relevant to the health technology ecosystem that were not directly
addressed in the RFI, including cybersecurity. We included several health IT and
cybersecurity-focused recommendations in our recent response to the Office of
Management and Budget's RFI on deregulation, including modifying the HIPAA
cybersecurity rule of December 2024 to make the requirements voluntary.1
Our detailed comments are attached. We look forward to the opportunity to work with
CMS, ASTP/ONC and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help
realize technology’s full potential for improving health outcomes, fully engaging patients
in managing their health and reducing administrative burden. Please contact me if you
have questions, or feel free to have a member of your team contact Jennifer Holloman,
AHA director of health IT policy, at jholloman@aha.org.
Sincerely,
/s/
Ashley Thompson
Senior Vice President
Public Policy Analysis and Development
1 https://www.aha.org/system/files/media/file/2025/05/aha-response-to-omb-deregulation-rfi-letter-5-12-
2025.pdf

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 4 of 18
HEALTH TECHNOLOGY ECOSYSTEM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Data Access and Integration ........................................................................................ 5
United States Core Data for Interoperability Version 4 ................................................ 5
Providers ........................................................................................................................ 6
Digital Health Apps ...................................................................................................... 6
Data Exchange — Prior Authorization API .................................................................. 7
Data Exchange — Provider Access API ...................................................................... 9
Data Exchange — Patient Access API ........................................................................ 9
Data Exchange — Provider Directory API ................................................................. 10
Digital Identity ............................................................................................................ 10
Information Blocking .................................................................................................. 11
Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) ........................... 11
Quality Measure Reporting ........................................................................................ 12
Payers .......................................................................................................................... 13
Establishing a Claims Attachment Standard .............................................................. 13
Technology Vendors/Data Providers/Networks ....................................................... 14
Price Transparency .................................................................................................... 14
Value-Based Care ........................................................................................................ 16
Aligning Incentives ..................................................................................................... 16
Promoting Interoperability .......................................................................................... 17
Streamlining Quality Measures .................................................................................. 18

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 5 of 18
DATA ACCESS AND INTEGRATION
United States Core Data for Interoperability Version 4
The United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) was first established in 2020
to replace the Common Clinical Data Set (CCDS). USCDI establishes standardized
classes and elements of data to provide consistent health information exchange across
the various parties that engage in a patient’s health care journey. It also supports quality
measurement reporting since it provides standardized data elements across care
settings. It has been updated multiple times to integrate new data elements.
The AHA is supportive of standardizing data classes and elements through USCDI.
Standardized data can help ensure that patients and providers have consistent,
comprehensive information across settings. While we support the standardization of
data, we do have recommendations pertaining to USCDI v4 standards.
First, as we commented previously, we encourage ASTP to continue building out
vocabulary standards for all USCDI v4 elements in instances where they are
missing or limited.2 Vocabulary standards provide the baseline definitions and units of
measure for data elements, and as such are foundational building blocks for
interoperability. This ensures that providers are communicating in the same manner
when exchanging relevant health data and tracking longitudinally over time. For
example, for body weight, USCDI v4 vocabulary standards include use of Logical
Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC®) version 2.67 and the unit of
measure is the Unified Code of Units for Measure (UCUM), Revision 2.1. Continuing to
expand vocabulary standards across elements will ensure that the USCDI continues to
evolve from a collection of narrow data points into a more holistic and complete picture
of the patient's health.
Second, we remain concerned with the aggressive timeline for transitioning to USCDI
v4 requirements. In the Health, Technology and Interoperability (HTI-2) rule last year,
the agencies proposed that USCDI v3 will expire by Dec. 31, 2027. However, many
organizations are still working to meet requirements for USCDI v3. Indeed, based on
HTI-1, USCDI v3 will be required beginning Jan. 1, 2026. That only leaves one year to
transition to the next version. We are particularly concerned that this may put smaller
hospitals at risk for noncompliance given that some of the technology vendors
supporting these organizations have been challenged to keep up with USCDI updates.
We request that ASTP extend the expiration date of USCDI v3 for an additional
year (through CY 2028), and continue to monitor progress on readiness for
transition.
2 https://www.aha.org/2024-10-04-aha-comment-letter-hhs-hti-2-interoperability-proposed-rule

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 6 of 18
PROVIDERS
Digital Health Apps
The RFI requests feedback on barriers or obstacles for providers in leveraging digital
health products (particularly those providers in rural areas).
One barrier to expanding digital health products to rural and underserved populations
has been a lack of access to enabling technologies (like broadband, reliable Wi-Fi or
smartphones), as well as education to support digital literacy. Indeed, the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) reports that over 22% of Americans in rural areas
lack access to appropriate broadband (fixed terrestrial 25/3 Mbps) compared to 1.5% of
urban areas.3 Furthermore, according to a recent report from the Assistant Secretary for
Planning and Evaluation (ASPE), over 26% of Medicare beneficiaries reported not
having computer or smartphone access at home.4 These data points suggest that
investment in foundational infrastructure and educational resources may increase
patients’ access to telehealth and digital health applications. We encourage cross-
agency collaboration to develop training and potential grant funding
opportunities to support patient educational efforts on digital health tools. This
could include coordination across agencies like HHS, the FCC, the Department of
Commerce, the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Education.
Other barriers to the adoption of digital health tools include insufficient payment. We
have supported the establishment of new billing codes for digital treatment, including
the digital mental health treatment (DMHT) codes and interprofessional consultation
codes that were finalized as part of the CY 2025 Physician Fee Schedule, as well as the
historical remote physiological monitoring codes. However, we continue to urge the
agencies to provide clarifying guidance and technical assistance for these codes.
For example, in the CY 2025 Physician Fee Schedule, CMS designated DMHT
technologies as software devices requiring Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
certification. CMS finalized that devices “must be cleared under 510(k) or granted De
Novo authorization by the FDA and in each case must be classified under 21 CFR
882.5801 for mental or behavioral health treatment.” This narrow definition may limit the
types of devices available and deviate from standards for Remote Therapeutic
Monitoring (RTM) services, which only require that a device meet the definition of an
FDA device. We urge CMS to provide clarifying guidance on the definition.
3 https://www.fcc.gov/reports-research/reports/broadband-progress-reports/2020-broadband-deployment-
report
4 https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/4e1853c0b4885112b2994680a58af9ed/telehealth-
hps-ib.pdf

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 7 of 18
Other examples of billing codes requiring clarification can be found in the remote patient
monitoring codes. In prior rulemaking, CMS established a set of codes for Remote
Physiologic Monitoring (RPM) and RTM services. In CY 2021, CMS established that
following the end of the COVID-19 public health emergency, RPM services may only be
furnished to established patients. As such, in CY 2024, CMS returned to the CY 2021
guidance and pre-COVID-19 pandemic rules to require that RPM and RTM services
only be administered to established patients. We disagree that RPM and RTM services
should be limited to just established patients. RPM and RTM have been critical
capabilities to safely discharge patients with chronic conditions from the hospital,
transition patients to better self-manage conditions and reduce readmissions. During the
COVID-19 pandemic, the flexibility to provide these services to both new and
established patients meant that patients were able to start monitoring services earlier (in
many cases enrolling prior to discharge), which provided critical support in the
immediate timeframe after discharge. There is concern that requiring an established
relationship will create a barrier for patients to access services in a timely manner.
Furthermore, there is precedent within evaluation and management (E/M) coding
structure for new vs. established relationships (E/M codes are separated based on new
vs. established). As such, we urge CMS to reinstate flexibilities to allow for both
new and established patients to access RPM and RTM services.
Finally, we encourage CMS to develop pathways for billing of new non-face-to-
face provider services that are facilitated by technology. CMS has already
permanently adopted, on a case-by-case basis, certain non-face-to-face codes for
remote physiological monitoring, remote therapeutic monitoring, AI, e-visits and virtual
check-ins. As technology advances, applications of digital care delivery will expand. For
telehealth services, CMS created two categories: one for permanent telehealth-eligible
codes (approved permanently) and another for provisional codes, which allow for billing
of certain services while the agency completes evaluation of feasibility for permanent
adoption. We would encourage the agency to create a similar status for other non-face-
to-face provider services to foster incentives for technology adoption while the agency
reviews these applications for permanent adoption.
Data Exchange — Prior Authorization API
The AHA commends the agencies for seeking input on the development and use of the
Prior Authorization API as well as on effective certification criteria and standards under
the ONC Health IT Certification Program. The Prior Authorization API required in the
Interoperability and Prior Authorization final rule (CMS-0057-F) will remove barriers to
patient care by streamlining the prior authorization process. With the final rule, CMS
addressed a practice that too often leads to dangerous delays in patient treatment and
clinician burnout in the health care system.
The Interoperability and Prior Authorization final rule requires the creation of Fast
Healthcare Interoperability Resource (FHIR)-based APIs to facilitate the exchange of

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 8 of 18
information necessary to streamline prior authorization processes directly from a
provider’s EHR system. The AHA has long advocated for the creation of electronic prior
authorization standards that integrate with provider clinical information systems to
eliminate time spent transposing clinical data from one system to another. We continue
to strongly support an end-to-end automated prior authorization process that integrates
with clinicians’ EHR workflow.
However, realizing the goal of automated prior authorization and interoperability
requires many health information technology (HIT) products and module systems to
function as an integrated whole, including some products not under ONC certification.
These include practice management systems and systems operated by entities not
directly under CMS authority, such as clearinghouses and intermediaries. Additionally,
variance in API usage and FHIR transaction implementation specifics could require
significantly more vendor services to navigate, which would increase provider costs,
thus undermining savings and process improvements. Streamlining API usage would
allow providers to access and share prior authorization data with payers more
efficiently, thereby reducing the burden and enhancing patient care.
To date, the Prior Authorization API requirements have not been finalized as part of
health IT certification. This inaction creates concern that providers will be required to
comply with a CMS requirement without certainty that, in turn, their EHRs will support
the electronic prior authorization transaction. In its HTI-2 proposed rule, ASTP/ONC
proposed to establish HIT certification criteria that align with the CMS API requirements
and recommendations in the Interoperability and Prior Authorization final rule. We
strongly support this proposal, which would ensure that the APIs developed to
meet the CMS regulation adhere to relevant interoperability standards and
support effective information sharing. Importantly, ASTP/ONC proposed to update
certification criteria and standards to require vendors to facilitate electronic prior
authorization using certified HIT. Specifically, ASTP/ONC proposed adopting two “Prior
Authorization APIs” certification criteria, which specify requirements for certified HIT that
providers and payers can leverage to conduct electronic prior authorization. We
reiterate our support for adding these API requirements into the base EHR criteria.
As noted, for providers to realize the benefits of electronic prior authorization, their EHR
developers must provide and support this technology as part of their base product
offering. However, for each end of the electronic prior authorization exchange to
function properly and for provider and payer systems to successfully interplay, payer
APIs must be able to connect with the EHR APIs used by providers. Without bridging
the gap between provider and payer systems, providers cannot be certain that their
EHRs will communicate successfully with payer systems in a standardized, efficient

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 9 of 18
manner. Accordingly, the AHA urges that ASTP/ONC and CMS collaborate to
require that impacted payers adopt and use certified payer APIs.5
Data Exchange — Provider Access API
The AHA appreciates the agencies’ commitment to promoting the seamless and secure
flow of health information between payers, providers and patients. As such, the AHA
supports the Provider Access API, a FHIR-based platform that allows a provider
to access patients’ claims and encounter data, clinical data maintained by the
plan, and information on pending and active prior authorization decisions. We
strongly support CMS’ efforts to increase provider access to data held by payers.
Providers benefit from increased data exchange with payers, since payers often have
information about preventative care and other services furnished by other providers.
Access to this information can help providers better manage a patient’s care, enable
more informed decision making and potentially prevent the ordering or provision of
duplicative services.
In its HTI-2 proposed rule, ASTP/ONC proposed the addition of criteria to the base EHR
definition to include a Provider Access API. The AHA supports ASTP/ONC adding new
API requirements. We see the Provider Access API as a vehicle to allow impacted
payers to build upon their existing systems and processes to enhance access to patient
data, while continuing to protect patient privacy and data security.
Data Exchange — Patient Access API
The AHA has consistently supported the Patient Access API, and we commend
CMS’ action in the Interoperability and Prior Authorization final rule to expand the
information in the patient access API to include information about a patient’s
pending, active, denied and expired prior authorization decisions. We agree that
increasing the transparency surrounding the prior authorization process is beneficial for
patients, as these utilization management policies frequently have a significant impact
on their care. The AHA supports patients utilizing the Patient Access API to access
supporting documentation for a specific prior authorization request so they can gain
visibility into what the payer is evaluating and better understand the payer’s clinical
criteria.
We strongly agree with CMS that one of the most important aspects of making health
data accessible to patients is to protect the privacy and security of patient health
information. This is particularly important once a patient’s data is received by a third-
party application administered by a non-covered entity under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). We applaud CMS’ commitment to ensuring
5 https://www.aha.org/2024-10-04-aha-comment-letter-hhs-hti-2-interoperability-proposed-rule

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 10 of 18
that patient privacy and security are protected, and we encourage CMS to continue
exploring ways to promote interoperability while protecting patient privacy.
Furthermore, we support the agencies’ ongoing efforts to educate patients about the
potential benefits and risks of accessing their health information via APIs using third-
party applications that often do not have the same privacy obligations as HIPAA-
regulated entities. We encourage the agencies to collaboratively identify the best ways
to communicate privacy policies and practices deployed by third-party health apps. It is
critical that patients understand in plain language the ways in which data protections
may change as their data moves from HIPAA-regulated entities, such as their providers
and payers, to third-party apps.
Data Exchange — Provider Directory API
The AHA shares the agencies’ goals of improving patient access to provider information
and facilitating health information exchange and data reporting. In particular, we are
supportive of the Provider Directory API that allows patients to discover in-
network providers with the most accurate and up-to-date lists. However, we have
several concerns relating to operationalizing the Provider Directory API. For
example, some Provider Directory APIs do not fully and accurately represent plan
details and networks. For these APIs to be useful to patients, they must be reliable.
Moreover, the AHA urges ONC/ASTP and CMS to ensure that the Provider Directory
API replaces other existing provider information data sets. Steps must be taken to
ensure that the Provider Directory API does not simply become an additional data
source available to patients without sufficiently addressing how or why it differs from the
myriad provider directories already in existence, and to ensure that it does not
complicate patients’ abilities to access accurate information. Further, work on provider
directories must reduce — not contribute to — provider reporting burden and
ensure adequate testing and standardization of health information and data
transmission. Finally, we encourage ONC/ASTP and CMS to collaborate to ensure
that there are clear safety and security requirements in place for the Provider Directory
API.
Digital Identity
As mentioned previously, the AHA supports reasonable guardrails to ensure the safe
exchange of sensitive health data and the privacy of patients. One key component of
this is digital identity verification to ensure that patients, providers, caregivers and other
stakeholders are, in fact, who they claim to be when requesting or sending sensitive
health information. We support the establishment of reasonable, flexible standards
for digital identity credentials. We look forward to working with the agencies on
potential solutions.

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 11 of 18
Information Blocking
The AHA has long supported transparency of critical health data for patients and the
clinicians treating them. Timely access to data can help patients make more informed
decisions about their health. However, we are concerned about certain aspects of
information blocking policies. As we cited in our recent response to the Office of
Management and Budget’s deregulation RFI, we request that ASTP repeal the
provider disincentives in the June 2024 final rule “21st Century Cures Act:
Establishment of Disincentives for Health Care Providers That Have Committed
Information Blocking” (RIN 0955-AA05).6
The 2024 rule establishing disincentives for providers found to have committed
information blocking is excessive, confusing and imbalanced. Under the final rule,
hospitals and providers found to engage in information blocking may face reductions in
Medicare payment updates, adjustments to reimbursement rates, lower performance
scores and potential ineligibility for certain incentive programs. Specifically, hospitals
under the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program found to have committed
information blocking would experience a reduction of the market basket update by 75%.
Critical access hospitals (CAHs) would see a reduction from 101% to 100% of
reasonable costs, while clinicians in Medicare's Merit-based Incentive Payment System
would receive a score of zero in the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance
category. Providers in accountable care organizations (ACOs) that commit information
blocking would be ineligible to participate in the Medicare Shared Savings program for
at least one year and may not receive revenue they may have earned through the
program.
The disincentive structure in this rule is excessive, so much so that it may threaten the
financial viability of economically fragile hospitals, including many small and rural
hospitals. In addition, the processes by which the Office of the Inspector General will
determine if information blocking has occurred are unclear, including the appeals
process, giving this rule the appearance of being arbitrary and capricious. We therefore
urge the agencies to repeal these disincentives.
Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA)
The AHA has supported the objective of TEFCA to create a common national
framework that provides a universal technical foundation for interoperability. The
establishment of such a framework has the potential to provide the connective tissue for
providers, patients, payers and public health agencies to share information securely
across health information networks. While we are encouraged by the potential for
6 https://www.aha.org/lettercomment/2025-05-12-aha-response-omb-deregulation-rfi

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 12 of 18
TEFCA to support the transferability of data, there are gaps in the current framework.
We have several recommended changes to address these gaps.
For example, the AHA remains concerned that there are no detailed specifications
related to suspension and termination processes for QHINs. While there is a process to
terminate QHINs from TEFCA for cause, it’s unclear what happens to the hospitals and
health systems that relied on that QHIN once it is terminated. We ask that CMS provide
clarification on the rights and obligations of hospitals or health systems that are using a
QHIN that gets suspended or terminated from TEFCA. Specifically, we ask that the
agencies provide appropriate protections to ensure that hospitals and health
systems that have a QHIN that is suspended or terminated not be held liable for
information blocking claims.
Another example of gaps in the current framework is related to the governance structure
of TEFCA, which gives QHINs the primary responsibility for ensuring that their
participants abide by TEFCA’s requirements. This governance structure runs the risk of
quickly exceeding the capabilities of both QHINs and the Recognized Coordinating
Entity (the organization responsible for TEFCA’s oversight) to effectively manage
oversight for TEFCA. And this also limits the scalability of TEFCA. We recommend that
ASTP build additional internal capacity to oversee and ensure adherence to
TEFCA’s stipulations, including establishing an attestation schedule for all
QHINs. ASTP should also publish the “designation” documentation publicly on
its website.
Quality Measure Reporting
The RFI seeks feedback on ways to continue advancing the adoption of FHIR standards
to support the reporting of quality measures. The AHA agrees that a digital and
interoperable quality measurement enterprise is a laudable long-term goal that could
have positive and far-reaching impacts on quality of care and the provider experience.
The AHA also sees significant potential in expanding the use of FHIR, as this standard
is more flexible than many other available frameworks. At the same time, transitioning to
only FHIR-based digital quality measures (dQMs) in federal programs will prove to be a
staggeringly complex task.
As CMS and ASTP/ONC continue their digital quality measurement work, the AHA
offers several overarching recommendations. First, while FHIR-based reporting holds
promise, the overarching goal for its quality measurement programs should
remain as measuring the highest priority opportunities to improve care. In other
words, the pursuit of adopting particular reporting standards should not come at the
expense of ensuring the measures are a meaningful reflection of quality and providing
usable information to hospitals to improve care.

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 13 of 18
Second, we urge the agencies not to set arbitrary dates for standards adoption.
As CMS and ASTP/ONC have previously articulated, dQMs could integrate data from a
wide range of sources, including hospital administrative systems, clinical assessment
data, case management systems, EHRs, instruments (e.g., wearable medical devices),
patient portals, health information exchanges (HIEs) and registries, and “other sources.”
Hospitals do not manage some of these sources themselves; yet, their performance on
a dQM could be linked to such data. We are concerned that the accuracy and reliability
of dQMs could be compromised by poor data quality from outside sources. For this
reason, the pace of conversion should be based on the results of field testing and
feasibility studies rather than an arbitrary deadline.
Lastly, the AHA encourages the agencies to advance efforts to align digital
quality measurement across the public and private sectors. Hospitals have long
aspired to an approach to quality measurement that enables them to report data only
once and have it used for multiple purposes. Unfortunately, hospitals have long faced
discordant reporting requirements among Federal, state and private sector quality
reporting and value programs. Even when the measure topics are the same, often there
are differences in measure design across programs that result in the need for
duplicative data collection, excess costs and confusion. As CMS and ASTP/ONC
advances a plan for dQMs, we encourage the agencies to prioritize the development of
dQMs that are usable across the public and private sectors.
PAYERS
Establishing a Claims Attachment Standard
The AHA urges the administration to establish a standard transaction for clinical
attachments to support claims, the lack of which has been a significant source of
administrative complexity and burden for hospitals and other providers.
Specifically, the AHA is largely supportive of the proposal to standardize claims
attachments under HIPAA.
Since the initial creation of the HIPAA administrative simplification standards, Congress
and HHS have recognized the need for standardized attachments to reduce industry
burden associated with sharing clinical information needed to process claims. This
standardization remains of critical importance for providers and their patients, given the
increasingly complex benefit structures of health plans that progressively require
substantial information to supplement claims for adjudication. Too frequently today,
provider payments are often delayed by weeks or months as plans request and
providers submit additional information necessary for adjudication in nonstandard ways.
Creating a consistent method for a plan to request the specific documentation
necessary to “clean” a claim would exponentially reduce these processes, thereby
enabling plans to issue payments to providers much sooner. This would not only help
alleviate some financial stress by improving time to payment, but also would prevent

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 14 of 18
delayed bills from surprising patients when receiving their cost-sharing amount after
insurance payment is complete.
In December 2022, CMS released a notice of proposed rulemaking recommending
standardization using the X12N 275—Additional Information to Support a Health Care
Claim or Encounter Version and X12N 277—Health Care Claim Request for Additional
Information to facilitate the request for and attachment of claims information. Since this
time, additional methods, such as HL7 FHIR APIs, have been identified as potential
mechanisms to standardize this interchange. The AHA does not endorse a specific
method, but rather supports that the standard utilized is available and applied
consistently across all their payer partners, which should eliminate the inefficiencies
caused by plan-specific attachment requirements. Furthermore, we urge the
administration not to delay the establishment of a standard as a result of additional
emerging methodology, as the need for this transaction is long overdue. Instead, we
encourage the administration to ensure that new technologies can be adequately
incorporated as they are properly developed and shown to offer increased efficiencies.
TECHNOLOGY VENDORS/DATA PROVIDERS/NETWORKS
Price Transparency
The AHA appreciates the agencies’ focus on improving the price transparency policies
to make them most valuable to patients and other health care stakeholders. Hospitals
and health systems are dedicated to improving price transparency for patients. We
remain concerned, however, that the numerous and sometimes conflicting requirements
at both the state and federal levels create an overwhelming landscape of pricing
information that not only is challenging for patients to navigate but also adds excessive
costs and workforce burden to the health care system.7,8,9 We strongly recommend
that CMS focus on streamlining current policies to remove complexity from the
patient experience by focusing on the options for patient estimates and other
pricing information and ensuring those estimates are as accurate as possible.
This will allow the policies to achieve their intended purpose — to help patients
understand and compare their expected costs prior to care — while also minimizing
duplication and excess burden on the health care system. Our specific
recommendations for aligning the policies are as follows:
First, we recommend streamlining the hospital machine-readable file
requirements to minimize duplication of effort and the potential for conflicting
7 https://www.aha.org/fact-sheets/2023-02-24-fact-sheet-hospital-price-transparency
8 https://www.aha.org/system/files/media/file/2023/09/aha-comments-on-cms-outpatient-and-ambulatory-
surgery-prospective-payment-system-proposed-rule-for-cy-2024-letter-9-8-23.pdf
9 https://www.aha.org/system/files/media/file/2021/03/aha-comments-on-no-surprises-act-price-
transparency-provisions-letter-3-16-21.pdf

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 15 of 18
information, while preserving public access to negotiated rates. Specifically, we
recommend that CMS maintain the requirement that insurers post all negotiated rates
with providers while allowing hospitals to focus solely on chargemaster rates and cash
prices. In doing so, consumers, third-party vendors, researchers and other interested
parties would retain access to negotiated rate information while the risk of potentially
conflicting information would be reduced. This also would eliminate duplication of effort
and therefore reduce unnecessary costs and burden in the health care system.
Second, we recommend relying on the No Surprises Act GFE and AEOB
requirements to provide patients with the most accurate estimates for their
course of care. We believe that once fully implemented, the No Surprises Act GFE and
AEOB policies will have the greatest impact on patients. These estimates will be tailored
to the patients' unique characteristics and expected care pathways and, in the case of
insured patients, take into account their health care coverage, including where they are
in their deductible. In addition, patients will automatically receive these estimates as part
of their pre-care paperwork without additional effort on their part. We are deeply
engaged with CMS and other stakeholders in workgroups to ensure that the insured
GFEs and AEOBs will be implemented in a way that will create meaningful estimates in
an efficient manner, and we look forward to continuing this work with the new
administration.
There are, however, still several issues that are slowing down the process, including
determining which entity is responsible for collecting and collating estimates from
various providers involved in a patient’s episode of care. The AHA strongly encourages
CMS to require each provider to submit its own preservice estimate to the insurer, which
would collate them and apply its coverage rules to generate the AEOB, consistent with
how the post-service claim explanation of benefit (EOB) process works today.
The AEOB process is intended to essentially provide patients with an EOB in advance
of care. AEOBs, like EOBs, are not simply a compilation of claims from unique
providers. They are the result of the insurer processing the individual claims and
applying its coverage rules, including considering where the individual is within their
deductible and maximum out-of-pocket cost limits. These coverage rules — such as
whether the insurer bundles some set of services into a single reimbursement or even
covers certain items in a given circumstance — are all elements that must be known to
generate the AEOB. Insurance companies already have the workflows and technology
to not only collect and collate claims from different providers but also to apply their
coverage rules and adjustments.
As we previously expressed jointly with the American Medical Association and Medical
Group Management Association, the alternative of requiring a single convening provider
for AEOBs would create enormous administrative burdens for providers, utilize a
process that diverges from the claims process used to create patient bills, and could

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 16 of 18
potentially lead to delays in care.10 To ensure that the estimates are most reflective of a
patient’s final bill and do not create unnecessary burdens on the care delivery process,
the AHA urges CMS not to require a single provider to compile preservice estimates
before they are sent to the insurer.
Finally, we recommend CMS only require GFEs and AEOBs for scheduled
services, while relying on the shoppable service/price estimator requirements of
the Hospital Price Transparency and Transparency in Coverage rules to provide
preservice information to shopping patients. Generating GFEs and AEOBs is labor-
and time-intensive and their usability is often dependent on clinical information and
other personal information that is not known for nonscheduled patients. Therefore, we
recommend the agency consider applying these requirements where they will provide
the most value and rely on the more scalable shoppable service/price estimator tool
requirements to meet the needs of patients who are evaluating different options (i.e.,
shopping).
In addition, we recommend that CMS engage with Congress to preserve
hospitals’ abilities to meet the shoppable service requirement with a price
estimator tool. These tools are currently the best mechanism for patients to access
price estimates. Changing this policy would move the field in the wrong direction,
requiring patients to navigate machine-readable files that can be confusing and
cumbersome.
VALUE-BASED CARE
HIT and digital health tools are vital for the implementation of value-based care models,
including those implemented by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation
(CMMI). From patient-facing technologies (like remote monitoring equipment) to
provider tools to capture and track quality measure performance, health IT is critical to
hospitals and health systems being successful in these types of models. At the same
time, these tools require significant time and resources to implement. Oftentimes, the
cost and complexity of technology can be a rate-limiting step for many hospitals seeking
to make the transition to value-based models. To ensure that technology is an enabler
rather than a barrier to value-based care, the AHA makes the following
recommendations:
Aligning Incentives
As mentioned above, hospitals and health systems are critical stakeholders in the
journey to value. However, specific policies have hampered their ability to participate in
10 https://www.aha.org/lettercomment/2022-09-27-cms-urged-not-create-advanced-explanation-benefits-
burdens

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 17 of 18
certain models. For example, CMS has used captured revenue to distinguish ACOs as
“low-revenue” or “high-revenue,” and by proxy, to identify ACOs as either physician-led
(low-revenue) or hospital-led (high-revenue). The agency has then limited participation
in certain alternative payment models (APMs) or qualification for advanced investment
payments (AIPs) to only physician-led or low-revenue ACOs. The advanced investment
payments provide needed resources for organizations to build health IT infrastructure to
support outcomes tracking, patient digital health tools, and quality reporting
requirements. The arbitrary threshold for qualification for advanced investment
payments means that many hospitals, including rural and CAHs, are not able to receive
the necessary resources to invest in these models. We urge the removal of
problematic high/low revenue thresholds that preclude rural and CAHs from
obtaining necessary resources for infrastructure investment.
The bipartisan Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA) was
also intended to support the transition to value-based care. MACRA provided advanced
incentive payments (5%) for providers participating in advanced APMs through 2024.
These payments were designed to assist with the provision of non-fee-for-service
programs, including digital tools and care coordinators. However, MACRA statute only
provided the advanced APM bonuses through the CY 2024 payment period. Because
participation in the advanced APM program has fallen short of initial projections,
spending on advanced APM bonuses has fallen well short of the amount the
Congressional Budget Office projected when MACRA was originally scored.
Repurposing the spending shortfall for APM bonuses in future years will serve to
accelerate our shared goal of increasing APM adoption. We urge the agencies to
work with Congress to extend APM incentive payments, which have helped
support technology investment costs.
Promoting Interoperability
Historically, the Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) policy required ACOs
participating in the MSSP BASIC track levels A through D to certify annually that at least
half of their eligible clinicians used certified EHR technology to document and
communicate clinical care to patients or other health providers. ACOs participating in
the BASIC track level E or the ENHANCED track were required to meet a higher
threshold of 75% of eligible clinicians using certified EHR technology. However, in the
CY 2024 PFS final rule, CMS adopted a policy requiring all clinicians in an ACO to use
certified EHR technology that meets either the 2015 Edition base EHR definition or any
subsequent base EHR definition promulgated by ASTP/ONC.
The AHA continues to believe that widespread adoption of certified EHR technology is
an important enabler to innovative care approaches. However, we remain deeply
concerned that eliminating the percentage threshold for the number of clinicians
meeting certified EHR requirements may inadvertently disqualify too many
clinicians from participating in ACOs. The AHA urges CMS to revert to its prior policy

The Honorable Thomas Keane, M.D.
The Honorable Stephanie Carlton
June 16, 2025
Page 18 of 18
and focus on advancing policy approaches that can more broadly support the wider
clinician adoption of EHRs. For example, the AHA has recommended that CMS
consider expanding Safe Harbor protections (i.e., Stark and Anti-Kickback) for hospitals
and health systems to extend access to their EHRs to others, including clinicians, who
also fill patient care needs in an episode-based payment model.
Streamlining Quality Measures
CMS value-based models usually require hospitals and other providers to report quality
measure data to CMS. To meet these requirements, providers rely on technology
platforms — e.g., EHRs, administrative systems, clinical registries — to collect measure
data and track their performance. Each new reporting requirement requires resources
— personnel time, vendor costs for needed upgrades, workflow changes, to name a
few. This makes it imperative that CMS strike a balance of value and burden in adopting
measures for its programs.
As CMS continues its value-based care, we urge the agency to continue maximizing the
use of its existing quality measures and reporting requirements to reduce provider
administrative burden and duplicative uses of limited hospital technology resources. For
example, in several recent CMMI models, CMS has used the measures, data
submission requirements and timeframes from its hospital quality reporting and value
programs. While not every existing CMS measure is ideally suited to a value-based care
arrangement, making use of existing measures when possible helps hospitals focus
less on changing their processes to accommodate new reporting requirements and
more on improving outcomes.