U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology
330 C Street SE
Washington, D.C. 20201
Subject: HHS Health Sector AI RFI - Request for Information: Accelerating the Adoption
and Use of Artificial Intelligence as Part of Clinical Care
To Whom it May Concern:
We appreciate the opportunity to provide, on behalf of Penn Medicine, a response to the RFI on
Accelerating the Adoption and Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) as Part of Clinical Care. Penn
Medicine is building a future-ready health system where AI augments human expertise,
improves patient outcomes, accelerates research, and reduces administrative burden, and we
appreciate HHS’ attention to the importance of this work.
Penn Medicine is one of the world’s leading academic medical centers, dedicated to the related
missions of medical education, biomedical research, and excellence in patient care. Penn
Medicine consists of the Raymond and Ruth Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania (founded in 1765 as the nation's first medical school) and the University of
Pennsylvania Health System.
Penn Medicine cares for patients in facilities and their homes, stretching from the Susquehanna
River in Pennsylvania to the New Jersey shore. Our facilities include the Hospital of the
University of Pennsylvania, Penn Presbyterian Medical Center, Chester County Hospital,
Lancaster General Health, Princeton Health, and Pennsylvania Hospital—the nation’s first
hospital, chartered in 1751. Additional facilities and enterprises include Penn Medicine at Home,
Good Shepard Penn Partners Rehabilitation, Lancaster Behavioral Health Hospital, and
Princeton House Behavioral Health, among others.
1. What are the biggest barriers to private sector innovation in AI for health care and its
adoption and use in clinical care?
Trust – Healthcare delivery organizations, clinicians, and patients/consumers need to develop
trust in health AI tools and their developers, particularly when lives are on the line. This
means that we need to be able to develop evidence of safety and effectiveness of tools,
particularly in high-risk circumstances closer to the patient/during direct patient care. Then, we
need to be able to monitor the performance of tools once implemented to ensure continued safety
and effectiveness, an effort that becomes more complex as multiple AI
tools operate together. This will take deep partnership between health AI developers and
implementers throughout the life cycle of a tool. Healthcare moves at the speed of trust, and
tools will not be adopted/used without that trust. Of course, need to keep in mind what the
evidentiary standard should be – we are aiming for health AI tools not to be perfect but as good
as or better than our current practice.
Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine | 3400 Civic Center Boulevard | Philadelphia, PA 19104-4283

Evidence – The vast majority of published scientific manuscripts about clinical AI tools, and the
vast majority of FDA-authorized AI-enabled devices, have no evidence to suggest that they
improve clinical decisions, care processes, or patient outcomes. A key element of trust (as
described above) is developing this evidence so that clinicians, patients, and health system
leaders are well informed when making decisions about purchasing and deployment. Developing
this evidence also creates an opportunity for private sector innovators to distinguish their
products from those that have less (or no) evidence of clinical effectiveness. Furthermore, such
evidence would alleviate critical information asymmetries in investment decisions for clinical AI
systems that have so far led to significant market inefficiencies. Evidence development can take
at least two forms including (1) experimental frameworks for generating the evidence with lower
risk and cost; (2) standardized and routine monitoring, as distinct from up front, one-time
evaluation which is what is prevalent. Of note, even when evidence is present, currently much of
it relates to foundation model performance in isolation of real workflows. This is not equivalent
to performance or attributed outcomes in real-world clinical environments.
Uncertainty around legal, regulatory, and medical malpractice issues – There is significant
uncertainty around the way health AI will be legislated and regulated which can inhibit
innovation as well as adoption of the technology. For example, it is unclear the direction in
which federal and state policy will go in relation to health AI, which one will have a more
dominant effect, and which of these stakeholders vendor-partners and healthcare organizations
should engage with in discussions relevant to the future of health AI. Companies may hesitate to
enter a market in which they must navigate 50 potentially divergent state regulatory regimes
rather than a single coherent framework. Additionally, ongoing uncertainty around which CDS
tools meet the definition of a device (despite recent attempts at clarification), combined with
recent instances of the FDA exhibiting “enforcement discretion” without transparent rationale or
defined timelines, further deters companies from entering the market. Finally, concerns of
clinicians and vendors related to malpractice and liability resulting from AI-generated
information or actions are currently unresolved.
Interoperability and data standardization - Data are the lifeblood of health AI, and tools need
to both be able to access data from systems across the healthcare ecosystem
(patients/consumers, clinicians, payers, pharmacies, etc.) but then also be able to take actions
flexibly within environments like the electronic health record and within clinician
workflows (functional in addition to technical interoperability). Importantly, data standardization
and adoption of standards such as FHIR, along with expanded data element availability, across
broad ranges of use cases is critical to truly enabling transformative health AI use cases.
FHIR and other APIs should also be enabled with appropriate capabilities to write back into the
EHR and integrate deeply within clinician and patient workflows to make it easier
for clinicians and patients to use health AI tools.
Finally, there should be cost controls on integrations and API access.
All of this, of course, needs to be balanced by adequate privacy and information security
safeguards.
Competency/workforce development and process reimagination – In order to derive the
most benefit from health AI tools, individuals within organizations must learn how
to utilize tools effectively and process must be modified or reimagined entirely to make use of
the health AI tool

Business model/reimbursement – Aside from a few specific technologies (ie AI guided
coronary plaque analyses), AI-based tools are not (and may not be) reimbursed for directly,
making it even more important for vendor-partners to clearly articulate and measure outcomes
and return on investment from health AI tools. CMS’ and the FDA’s paired ACCESS/TEMPO
models offer a limited initial framework, but without resolving fundamental questions about how
the FDA will regulate many AI tools beyond temporary enforcement discretion,
it remains unclear how these efforts will scale beyond pilot programs.
An effective business model is also important as AI implementers shoulder impactful AI-related
costs, such as those arising from (1) liability risks (which bear unknown costs at
the moment) and (2) operating costs from both model costs and data integration
costs. Many implementers can't realistically experiment, let alone adapt and reimagine people
and process along with technology, without financial relief on these fronts.
Of note, much of the innovation in the health AI space is focused on the use of large language
models, and that focus could become a barrier in the future to newer innovations. HHS
should consider encouraging divergent thinking in health AI and continuing to explore other
forms of language, vision-language, world models, among other AI tools and methods.
2. What regulatory, payment policy, or programmatic design changes should HHS prioritize to
incentivize the effective use of AI in clinical care and why? What HHS regulations, policies, or
programs could be revisited to augment your ability to develop or use AI in clinical care? Please
provide specific changes and applicable Code of Federal Regulations citations.
Information blocking– Enforcement of 21st Century Cures Act information blocking provisions
would help to create data ecosystem needed for effective health AI development
and implementation and the environment needed to implement health AI tools flexibly deeply
within workflows.
Interoperability – Similarly, continued development of trusted interoperability frameworks such
as TEFCA and CMS-Aligned Networks will allow for health AI tools to be more effectively
implemented in workflow .
Virtual care – In addition to information/insights generated from health AI tools,
patients/consumers also need access to care delivery in order to improve health outcomes, and
that virtual care is an excellent pairing with health AI tools such as chatbots. However, virtual
care, in the form of synchronous (ambulatory visits, Hospital at Home), asynchronous care
(eConsults, eVisits), and remote monitoring needs to have permanent reimbursement to ensure
stability needed to develop and grow programs. Relatedly, variation in state licensure and
telehealth regulations governing interstate delivery of care creates additional barriers to scaling
AI-enabled care models.
Clarification of intention for oversight – Informal discussions with FDA officials, in addition
to the precedent set by the recent ACLA vs FDA Supreme Court case, all suggest that
“homegrown” AI models – or those that are developed and deployed locally by hospitals but not
marketed or sold – are not likely to be considered part of the FDA’s oversight purview.
Clarifying this point officially would help to alleviate uncertainty in regulatory and business
decisions and would help foster local AI innovation.
Incentives – Similar to other eras of health IT implementation (for example post-HITECH
Act), tying incentives, particularly financial incentives to effective adoption and utilization of

health AI to boost patient outcomes will drive adoption. Efforts such as CMMI’s
ACCESS model and solicitations such as ARPA-H’s ADVOCATE are a step in the right
direction.
Liability – Concerns around liability limit more enthusiastic use of health AI in clinical care
delivery. Now, most if not all liability is placed on the shoulders of implementers of health AI
rather than developers. To encourage implementation, HHS/CMS should consider how this risk
can be shared more equally between implementers and developers.
3. For non-medical devices, we understand that use of AI in clinical care may raise novel legal
and implementation issues that challenge existing governance and accountability
structures (e.g., relating to liability, indemnification, privacy, and security). What novel legal
and implementation issues exist and what role, if any, should HHS play to help address them?
There are numerous legal and implementation issues raised in the context of health AI
implementation that challenge existing structures. A key example of this is the case of AI
agents. AI agents are already beginning to interact with each other to impact care delivery,
including teams of agents working within a healthcare delivery system as well as agents
interacting between actors such as payers and clinicians.
Especially when these interactions extend beyond one entity (such as payer and clinician), HHS
should consider setting standards for how these interactions should occur. This has already
started to happen via, for example, the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule
(encouraging adoption of FHIR standards for data exchange) as well as recent work on real-
time prescription benefits – but this approach likely needs to continue to evolve in an era of
agentic interactions.
In the clinician space, systems are under development where agents review the medical
literature, or large bodies of medical records, and surface insights and recommendations which
can serve as the basis for patient facing actions (i.e. orders, communication) by other agents. As
we mention above, this will require new frameworks for health AI evaluation as well as liability
shared between health AI developers and implementers.
From an HHS perspective, it will be important to balance creating conditions for safe and
effective implementation of health AI spanning patients, clinicians, payers, developers and others
while leaving room for experimentation.
4. For non-medical devices, what are the most promising AI evaluation methods (pre- and post-
deployment), metrics, robustness testing, and other workflow and human-centered evaluation
methods for clinical care? Should HHS further support these processes? If so, which
mechanisms would be most impactful (e.g., contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and/or
prize competitions)?
There are a number of AI evaluation methods emerging that fall into several categories. These
include (but are not limited to):
Benchmarks to evaluate health AI tools applied in specific task
areas (ie summarization): There are emerging constructs such
as MedHELM and HealthBench which show promise in the evaluation of health AI particularly
pre-deployment.

Bedi S, Cui H, Fuentes M, et al. Holistic evaluation of large language models for medical
tasks with MedHELM. Nat Med. Published online January 20,
2026. doi:10.1038/s41591-025-04151-2
Automated evaluation of AI output: There are also promising models of LLM-as-judge to
evaluate artifacts such as AI-generated summaries at scale, including post-deployment.
Croxford E, Gao Y, First E, et al. Evaluating clinical AI summaries with large language
models as judges. npj Digit Med. 2025;8(1):640. doi:10.1038/s41746-025-02005-2
Chung P, Swaminathan A, Goodell AJ, et al. Verifying Facts in Patient Care Documents
Generated by Large Language Models Using Electronic Health Records. NEJM AI.
2025;3(1). doi:10.1056/AIdbp2500418
Evaluation of the performance of compound AI systems (ie multiple models working
together): Much more work needs to be done in this space, especially as there is very little
known about evaluation of single and multi-agent systems pre- or post-deployment, including
how agents may be able to supervise each other, and how humans might maintain appropriate
oversight in a human on the loop model.
HHS should continue to encourage pragmatic and applied research activity in this
space. Programs like ARPA-H ADVOCATE are also encouraged as a way to spur government,
academic, and industry partnership.
Phases of research – While phases of research are well established for the evaluation of
pharmaceutical and traditional medical devices, such a framework has yet to be widely applied to
AI-enabled medical devices. Thus, established frameworks offer an opportunity to foster
innovation while guiding the appropriate interpretation of evidence for AI systems. HHS should
support enhanced evaluation alongside the development of AI-specific evaluation methods and
frameworks across all phases of research. For example, the vast majority of evidence for AI-
enabled clinical systems is best characterized as Phase 0, yet the results of such studies are often
over-interpreted and misunderstood. More Phase 1 and 2 studies are needed to bridge knowledge
gaps that would support more high quality, Phase 3 randomized evaluations of AI systems that
are deployed in real clinical workflows.
Park Y, Jackson GP, Foreman MA, Gruen D, Hu J, Das AK. Evaluating artificial
intelligence in medicine: phases of clinical research. JAMIA Open 2020;3(3):326–31.
Support from HHS is critical here in all of the forms proposed including grants and contracts.
5. How can HHS best support private sector activities ( e.g., accreditation, certification,
industry-driven testing, and credentialing) to promote innovative and effective AI use in clinical
care?
We believe new models need to emerge for credentialing health AI tools, potentially based on
existing structures such as CLIA and current forms of medical licensing. This would help to
build trust in health AI tools, and would enable adoption of health AI tools not requiring humans
in every loop, while still maintaining human accountability. Two papers below from Penn
faculty describe these models:
Herman DS, Reece JT, Weissman GE. Lessons for local oversight of AI in medicine
from the regulation of clinical laboratory testing. npj Digit Med.
2024;7(1):359. doi:10.1038/s41746-024-01369-1

Bressman E, Shachar C, Stern AD, Mehrotra A. Software as a Medical Practitioner— Is
It Time to License Artificial Intelligence? Published online 2025.
On the other hand, allowing states to advance autonomous AI use cases without clear federal
credentialing or oversight frameworks risks creating regulatory fragmentation and may
undermine trust, accountability, and consistency in how these tools are deployed.
As noted above, HHS should fund cooperative research and development efforts in this
space and use its authority to create innovation payment models (such as ACCESS)
and regulatory sandboxes for safe and effective experimentation.
6. Where have AI tools deployed in clinical care met or exceeded performance and cost
expectations and where have they fallen short? What kinds of novel AI tools would have
the greatest potential to improve health care outcomes, give new insights on quality, and help
reduce costs?
In care delivery, health AI has already had positive, measurable impact, particularly in reducing
friction in healthcare for patients, clinicians, and administrators.
Clinical documentation – Ambient AI scribes used to augment clinician documentation have
been shown to reduce time in chart as well as well as to reduce clinician burnout and increase
professional satisfaction. See other parts of our response for supporting evidence.
Closing care gaps – Generative AI based tools are able to review the fragmented medical record
and identify incidentally diagnosed or missed findings (such as pulmonary nodules which can
become cancer) and connect patients to care at earlier, more treatable stages of disease (or
prevent disease from developing entirely).
Upskilling the healthcare workforce – AI powered tools are able to bring what was previously
specialized knowledge to the point of care of all clinicians, allowing
more clinicians to participate in the delivery of that care, and to augment patient access to care.
Korom R, Kiptinness S, Adan N, et al. Ai-based clinical decision support for primary
care: a real-world study. arXiv. Preprint posted online 2025.
doi:10.48550/ARXIV.2507.16947
Predicting risk of disease – Predictive AI based tools are able to use electronic health
record data to predict clinical events such as inpatient decompensation, or risk of mortality, and
connect clinicians and patients to appropriate downstream actions.
Rossetti SC, Dykes PC, Knaplund C, et al. Real-time surveillance system for patient
deterioration: a pragmatic cluster-randomized controlled trial. Nat Med. 2025;31(6):1895-
1902. doi:10.1038/s41591-025-03609-7
Courtright KR, Madden V, Bayes B, et al. Default Palliative Care Consultation for
Seriously Ill Hospitalized Patients: A Pragmatic Cluster Randomized Trial. JAMA.
2024;331(3):224. doi:10.1001/jama.2023.25092
Clinical imaging – Clinical imaging use cases such as AI-assisted mammography have led to
improved patient outcomes

Lång K, Josefsson V, Larsson AM, et al. Artificial intelligence-supported screen reading
versus standard double reading in the Mammography Screening with Artificial
Intelligence trial (MASAI): a clinical safety analysis of a randomised, controlled, non-
inferiority, single-blinded, screening accuracy study. The Lancet Oncology.
2023;24(8):936-944. doi:10.1016/S1470-2045(23)00298-X
Thus far, health AI tools have mainly provided information, but novel tools will also be able to
reason, use tools, plan, have memory and take action to augment humans in healthcare
delivery (agents).
There is also early empirical evidence that implementation of AI tools may degrade clinicians’
independent diagnostic and decision-making skills (“deskilling”). Greater attention and research
investment are needed to better understand, monitor, and mitigate these risks.
Budzyń K, Romańczyk M, Kitala D, Kołodziej P, Bugajski M, Adami HO, Blom
J, Buszkiewicz M, Halvorsen N, Hassan C, Romańczyk T. Endoscopist deskilling risk
after exposure to artificial intelligence in colonoscopy: a multicentre, observational
study. The Lancet Gastroenterology & Hepatology. 2025 Oct 1;10(10):896-903.
7. Which role(s), decision maker(s), or governing bodies within health care organizations have
the most influence on the adoption of AI for clinical care? What are the primary administrative
hurdles to the adoption of AI in clinical care?
Within healthcare organizations, CEOs and other executive leaders help to create the vision for
use of health AI within an organization. Technology executives such as Chief Digital and
Information Officers, Chief Data and Analytics Officers, Chief Health AI Officers, and Chief
Nursing Information Officers, and Chief Health Information Officers are charged with strategy
and tactics behind implementing health AI in care delivery. This is often done in collaboration
with medical and nursing leaders such as Chief Physician Executives, Chief Medical Officers,
Chief Clinical Officers, and Chief Nursing Officers.
Most healthcare delivery organizations also now have health AI governance committees
with multidisciplinary stakeholders across teams in the organization (medical, legal, IT, ethics,
etc.) which also help to guide decision-making around health AI. Even with these committees, a
significant hurdle is risk assessment, and without unifying standards or certifications, each
assessment of each health AI tools is ad hoc. Simplifying the risk assessment process would
speed adoption of health AI in clinical care.
Outside of healthcare organizations – medical specialty societies have tremendous influence on
the behavior of medical practitioners and should be engaged in developing, implementing,
and monitoring health AI.
See above on commentary regarding administrative hurdles to adoption.
8. Where would enhanced interoperability widen market opportunities, fuel research, and
accelerate the development of AI for clinical care? Please consider specific data types, data
standards, and benchmarking tools.
Enhanced interoperability, through growth of trusted interoperability frameworks such as
TEFCA, adoption and expansion of FHIR-based standards, promotion of activities such as real-

time prescription benefit sharing, and prevention of information blocking, among other actions,
is critical for nurturing innovation in health technology. Importantly, interoperability should
include interoperability frameworks, data exchange standards, content standards, and workflow
standards to be truly effective.
These actions and others promote healthy competition amongst vendor-partners, ultimately
bringing the best deeply workflow integrated applications to market, and allowing systems
to craft technology environments that more rapidly bring the best applications to benefit patients
and consumers.
9. What challenges within health care do patients and caregivers wish to see addressed by the
adoption and use of AI in clinical care? Equally, what concerns do patients and caregivers have
related to the adoption and use of AI in clinical care?
Patients and caregivers are seeking assistance across their healthcare journeys, starting from
accessing information on known and potential health conditions, contextualized for them, to
being connected to care at the right time in the right place, appropriately preparing
for encounters, having a productive encounter with a clinician, navigating the care
delivery system to take action from encounters, obtaining and understanding testing, and
understanding and navigating health benefits.
Both patients/caregivers and clinicians share concerns around implementation of health AI,
starting with being able to trust outputs of health AI tools. Healthcare delivery is intrinsically a
human endeavor, and patients, caregivers, and clinicians alike are concerned AI may
negatively impact the human relationships, judgement, reasoning, and empathy that are at the
core of healthcare delivery. There are also concerns related to the environmental impact of AI
(water and energy use), the impact of data centers, the privacy and security of protected health
information, the impact of AI on jobs in the healthcare and other industries, and consent and
notification of the use of AI in care delivery environments.
10. Are there specific areas of AI research that HHS should prioritize to accelerate the adoption
of AI as part of clinical care?
There is much to be learned about the evaluation and implementation of health AI which would
result in accelerated adoption including
Evaluation and ongoing monitoring of health AI: This is a critical need to ensure safety and
effectiveness of tools. This needs to apply to predictive AI, generative AI, single agent AI, and
multi-agent AI systems.
Development of safety and control systems for health AI: Whether agentic or
otherwise, health AI systems, especially when semi-autonomous or autonomous, will
need mechanisms to ensure behaviors remain aligned with human values.
Human skill development: As mentioned in this response, the use of health AI is starting to be
associated with erosion in human skills. Research is needed on which human skills in healthcare
delivery truly continue to be needed, and how to maintain and enhance those skills while
collaborating with AI.
Use of health AI across tasks: In order for health AI to be most effective, it must also be able to
handle multiple related tasks together that would fall under a job. It is unknown across a range
of healthcare jobs, clinical and nonclinical, how best to extend beyond using AI for a specific

task (ie documenting a single note) to a job (i.e. completing set of tasks for an ambulatory visit,
from preparation through followup).
Health AI implementation and behavioral science: In order for health AI to translate to
improved patient outcomes, tools must be effectively implemented and used. There is research
needed in how to ensure our healthcare delivery workforce develops competency in using health
AI. Strategies to nudge use of health AI may come from adaptations of learnings from the field
of behavioral science, both for clinicians and patients/consumers.
Human-computer interaction: We need to better understand how to shape interactions between
humans and AI (human computer collaboration) to generative positive outcomes, including how
to architect interactions where humans are in the loop (preventing automation bias and neglect)
and on the loop. This applies to patient and clinicians but particularly to patients, as illustrated in
a recent RCT.
Bean AM, Payne RE, Parsons G, et al. Reliability of LLMs as medical assistants for
the general public: a randomized preregistered study. Nat Med. Published online
February 9, 2026. doi:10.1038/s41591-025-04074-y
Part of this work needs to be on how humans and computers share work, which
models work and adapt best for certain jobs/tasks (i.e. centaur vs. cyborg).
Abdulnour REE, Gin B, Boscardin CK. Educational Strategies for Clinical Supervision of
Artificial Intelligence Use. N Engl J Med. 2025;393(8):786-
797. doi:10.1056/NEJMra2503232
a. Are there published findings about the impact of adopted AI tools and their use clinical care?
There is now a large body of literature around the impact of ambient generative AI
powered documentation tools, including literature from Penn. Namely, the tools have been
found to save clinicians time, save cognitive load, save time in chart, and significantly
improve clinician experience. This has been seen in observational studies as well as randomized
controlled trials.
Duggan MJ, Gervase J, Schoenbaum A, et al. Clinician Experiences With Ambient
Scribe Technology to Assist With Documentation Burden and
Efficiency. JAMA Netw Open.
2025;8(2):e2460637. doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.60637
Afshar M, Ryan Baumann M, Resnik F, et al. A Pragmatic Randomized Controlled Trial
of Ambient Artificial Intelligence to Improve Health Practitioner Well-Being. NEJM AI.
2025;2(12). doi:10.1056/AIoa2500945
Lukac PJ, Turner W, Vangala S, et al. Ambient AI Scribes in Clinical Practice: A
Randomized Trial. NEJM AI. 2025;2(12). doi:10.1056/AIoa2501000
Additionally, there is evidence that summarization of data in the EHR can be generated
effectively and safely by large language models.

Small WR, Austrian J, O’Donnell L, et al. Evaluating Hospital Course Summarization by
an Electronic Health Record–Based Large Language Model. JAMA Netw Open.
2025;8(8):e2526339. doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.26339
There is also now a body of literature on the impact of health AI tools on augmenting patient
experience and clinician decision making.
Zeltzer D, Kugler Z, Hayat L, et al. Comparison of initial artificial intelligence (Ai) and
final physician recommendations in ai-assisted virtual urgent care visits. Ann Intern Med.
2025;178(4):498-506. doi:10.7326/ANNALS-24-03283
O’Sullivan JW, Palepu A, Saab K, et al. A large language model for complex cardiology
care. Nat Med. Published online February 6, 2026. doi:10.1038/s41591-025-04190-9
Tu T, Schaekermann M, Palepu A, et al. Towards conversational diagnostic artificial
intelligence. Nature. 2025;642(8067):442-450. doi:10.1038/s41586-025-08866-7
See above for more research findings.
Penn Medicine appreciates the opportunity to comment on RFI and welcomes any questions you
may have.
Sincerely,
Mitchell D. Schnall, MD, PhD
Senior Vice President for Data and Technology Solutions
Professor of Radiology
Penn Medicine