CLINICAL REPORT
GuidancefortheClinicianinRenderingPediatricCare
Special Requirements of Electronic
Health Record Systems in Pediatrics:
Clinical Report
KevinR.Dufendach,MD,MS,FAAP,a,bChristophU.Lehmann,MD,FAAP,FACMI,cS.AndrewSpooner,MD,MS,FAAP,b
COUNCILONCLINICALINFORMATIONTECHNOLOGY
Pediatricians’useofelectronichealthrecord(EHR)systemshas abstract
becomenearlyubiquitousintheUnitedStates,yetmanysystemslack aDivisionsofNeonatologyandbBiomedicalInformatics,Universityof
fullfunctionalitytodelivereffectiveandefficientpediatriccare.This
Cincinnati,DepartmentofPediatrics,CincinnatiChildren’sHospital
MedicalCenter,Cincinnati,Ohio;andcClinicalInformaticsCenter,
clinicalreportseekstoprovideacompendiumofcorepediatric UniversityofTexasSouthwesternMedicalCenter,Dallas,Texas
functionalityofimportancetochildhealthcareprovidersthatmay
DrsDufendach,Lehmann,andSpoonereachmadesignificant
serveasthefocusforEHRdevelopersandcliniciansastheyevaluate contributionstotheresearch,writing,editing,andrevisionofthis
clinicalreportandcreatedanoutlineofthemanuscript;DrDufendach
theirEHRneeds.Alsoreviewedareimportantbutlesscriticalfunctions, createdthefirstdraft;DrsLehmannandSpoonereditedand
anyofwhichmightbeofimportanceinaspecificpediatriccontext.The appendedthedraft;andTheCouncilonClinicalInformationTechnology
provideddetailededitsandfeedbackthattheprimaryauthorsusedto
majorareasdescribedhereareimmunizationmanagement,growthand improvethemanuscript.
development,socialdriversofhealthtracking,decisionsupportfor ThisdocumentiscopyrightedandispropertyoftheAmerican
AcademyofPediatricsanditsBoardofDirectors.Allauthorshave
orders,patientidentification,datanormalization,privacy,andsystem
filedconflictofintereststatementswiththeAmericanAcademyof
functionalitystandardsinpediatriccontexts. Pediatrics.Anyconflictshavebeenresolvedthroughaprocess
approvedbytheBoardofDirectors.TheAmericanAcademyof
Pediatricshasneithersolicitednoracceptedanycommercial
involvementinthedevelopmentofthecontentofthispublication.
ClinicalreportsfromtheAmericanAcademyofPediatricsbenefit
INTRODUCTION fromexpertiseandresourcesofliaisonsandinternal(AAP)and
externalreviewers.However,clinicalreportsfromtheAmerican
The technological landscape, including data sources both intra- and ex- AcademyofPediatricsmaynotreflecttheviewsoftheliaisonsor
tramural to health care, continues to change rapidly, introducing ad- theorganizationsorgovernmentagenciesthattheyrepresent.
vancements and
challenges.1–7
Although pediatrician use of electronic Theguidanceinthisreportdoesnotindicateanexclusivecourse
oftreatmentorserveasastandardofmedicalcare.Variations,
health record (EHR) systems has become nearly ubiquitous in the United
takingintoaccountindividualcircumstances,maybeappropriate.
States, with nearly 94% of pediatric offices surveyed reporting EHR use in
AllclinicalreportsfromtheAmericanAcademyofPediatrics
2016,fewerthan17% reportedusingEHRswithfullpediatricfunctionality automaticallyexpire5yearsafterpublicationunlessreaffirmed,
atthattime,whichwouldincludebasicfunctionality,likeweight-baseddos- revised,orretiredatorbeforethattime.
ing, and full functionality, like tracking immunization schedule adherence.7 DOI:https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2024-068509
Core pediatric-specific functionalities informed the 21st Century Cures Act
in 2016, which established a voluntary certification of health information Tocite:DufendachKR,LehmannCU,SpoonerSA;American
technologyforpediatriccare.5,8 AcademyofPediatrics,CouncilonClinicalInformation
This clinical report seeks to provide a compendium of the specific Technology.SpecialRequirementsofElectronicHealthRecord
SystemsinPediatrics:ClinicalReport.Pediatrics.2024;154(4):
functionalities that facilitate providing effective and efficient pediatric
e2024068509
care. This report does not seek to enumerate administrative functions
FROM THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS
PEDIATRICSVolume154,number4,October2024:e2024068509
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

in the practice-management system (such as appointment Office oftheNational Coordinator toestablishcriteria for
management,insuranceeligibilitydetermination,andbilling). this certification. Once the Drummond Group began de-
Information management is a key requirement for an ef- veloping the certification, AAPexperts participated inthe
fectivemedicalhome,whichwasenvisionedbytheAmerican program’s design.14 Although the certification will not
Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) in 1965 but required EHRs test for all functionalities the AAP supports in the safe
tobecomeareality.5,9,10 ThePatient-CenteredMedicalHome and effective care of children, it will be an important
Recognition program of the National Committee for Quality stepintoimprovingpediatricfunctionalitiesinEHRs.
Assurancedemandsthatphysicianpracticesmanageinforma-
tionforthebenefitofpatientsoverthecontinuumofcare.Al-
though the National Committee for Quality Assurance does IMMUNIZATIONMANAGEMENT
not require the use of an electronic system, the committee
EHR software used in pediatrics must be able to manage
encourages the use of certified EHR products, recognizing
the dynamic complexities involved in the scheduling, re-
that the functions required for Patient-Centered Medical
cording, analyzing, and reporting details accurately and
Home certification are difficult to achieve without a sophisti-
efficiently for a myriad of childhood immunizations. Be-
catedEHR.11
ing a dynamic and nimble system is critical, as the EHR
must adjust its decision support and reporting details
PEDIATRICFUNCTIONS
based on current recommendations, time of year, and a
In 2001, the AAP published a description of the features practice’spurchaseandsupplyofimmunizations.
that would be desirable in a clinical information system The EHR can also help to document immunization ir-
to be used in pediatrics.12 Almost none of these features regularities. The EHR must contain the details needed to
were purely pediatric but could provide value to other report any adverse events to the Vaccine Adverse Event
specialties as well (eg, geriatrics). Certainly, medication
Reporting System, and such events should remain a part
dosing by weight and recording guardianship informa- ofthepatient’simmunizationrecord.15–17Documentation
tion have examples in both pediatric and adult care;
of purposefully skipped vaccines because of clinical con-
however, because these features are vastly more preva-
traindication or refusal by a caregiver or patient should
lent and highlighted in pediatrics, we refer to them here
also remain with the immunization record, along with an
as “pediatric functions.” Although an ideal EHR would in-
explanation of why the vaccine was missed.18 Including
clude at least the functions mentioned in this report, we
these data in the immunization record will allow for a
haveattemptedtouseanordinalsystemtogradetheim-
single sourceofdocumentationforbothreceivedandnot
portance of these functions from “may” to “should” to
received vaccines, data that may be used to inform sub-
“must.”
sequentimmunizationsandcare.
CRITICALPEDIATRICEHRFUNCTIONAL AREAS
Linking toImmunizationInformation Systems
Several functional areas are so critical to the care of in-
fants, children, and adolescents that their absence would Immunization information system (IIS) technology has
impede quality pediatric care. These include the major developed significantlyinthelastdecade. Meaningful use
areas described here, including immunization manage- incentives for immunization interoperability helped to
ment; growth, development, and social drivers of health drive this development, and the Centers for Disease Con-
tracking; decision support for orders; patient identifica- trol and Prevention (CDC)’s National Center for Immu-
tion; data normalization; privacy; and system functional- nization and Respiratory Diseases helped by providing
itystandardsinpediatriccontexts. guidancethroughtheImmunizationInformationSystems
Strategic Plans.19 Although the focus of an IIS is interop-
RELATIONTO21STCENTURYCURESACT erability of immunization systems, the CDC provides many
Several studies reviewing pediatric features in outpatient detailsthatmaybehelpfulforEHRdevelopersandcon-
EHR systems demonstrated a significant misconnect be- sumers for local immunization management and for in-
tween the features highlighted by the AAP as required tegration with remote systems, along with details and
for pediatric care and features that were used in pediat- standards found in relevant AAP policy statements and
ric offices throughout the country.7,13 In no small part technicalreports.20,21
because of efforts by the AAP, in 2016 the United States Most states and several local jurisdictions have elec-
Congress passed the 21st Century Cures Act, which in- tronic IISs orregistries.22–24 The EHRshould allow inter-
cluded the requirement for the Office of the National Co- operability with these systems, including the ability to
ordinator to establish a voluntary pediatric certification download, upload, and synchronize a child’s immuniza-
of EHRs.8 Subsequently, AAP experts worked with the tionhistory,includingfrommultipledisparatesources.
2 FROMTHEAMERICANACADEMYOFPEDIATRICS
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

Immunization Decision Support Graphical RepresentationofGrowth
Systems for encoding rules about which immunizations Clinicians make important judgments about a child’s health
are due and when they are projected to be due in the fu- byvisualinspectionofgrowthcharts,plots ofachild’sbody
ture have existed for years.25 For an EHR system to fully measurements (usually a combination of weight, length or
support pediatric practice, it must be able to take previ- height,headcircumference,andBMI)overtime.Anindividu-
ous immunization data and the patient’s medical history al’s measurements are usually plotted against standard per-
and derive, at the point of care, logical conclusions about centile curves, such as those from the CDC or World Health
thecurrentimmunizationstatus,recommendappropriate
Organization.26Theseplotsmustbereadilyavailabletoclini-
immunizations, and warn against any contraindications. cians during the workflow of a standard patient visit. Per-
centile calculations and decision support based on historical
This forecasting requires an understanding of the indi-
values should be available to detect errors during value en-
vidual antigens present in each vaccine and analysis of
when, in what form, and at what age in the child’s life try.TheEHRsystemshouldallowtherepresentationofper-
eachantigenwas—orwassupposedtobe—administered centile curves from a usual source or others that may
provideadjustmentforprematurityorotherspecificpopula-
to ensure historical doses are valid. There may also be
tions.27–29 The EHR should allow magnification (“zooming”)
variations in this functionality based on individual pa-
of the plot to inspect specific areas, differentiating height
tienthealthneeds,suchasadjustmentsforpretermbirth,
from length, derivation of growth-velocity values between
prior immunization reactions, immunoglobulin adminis-
datapoints,anddisplayofpercentileorz-scoreofavaluein
tration, or immunodeficiency. These functions might be
comparison with the reference standard selected. Ideally,
built into the system or be derived from immunization
mechanisms would exist to tag specific values as spurious
registries or third-party programs accessed via a net-
andtofilterbasedoncriterialikelocationthemeasurement
work.IfthelogicisbuiltintotheEHRsystemitself,there
was obtained, such as might be desired in a pediatric nutri-
should be an easy way to update the logic to reflect
tion clinic that seeks to obtain very accurate and precise
changes to immunization rules or local epidemiology and weight,length,height,andheadcircumferencedata.30 These
to handle new vaccines and new antigen combinations.
data and visualizations should be available for caregivers
If the EHR consistently uses an IIS’s forecasting tools,
throughapatientportal.
this forecasting might take precedence over EHR-derived
forecasting. DevelopmentalTracking
Pediatric clinicians use a variety of developmental screening
PopulationLevel Immunization Management toolsthroughoutachild’slife,includingbothsurveysand
direct
assessment.31–33
Identification of children with de-
An EHR supporting pediatric care should facilitate re-
velopmental disabilities is necessary to implement early
portingofpediatric-specificqualitymeasures,suchasim-
intervention services. The EHR should support patient-
munization management across a population, such as a
and provider-facing structured data acquisition from
practice. Generating reports and snapshots based on im-
provider-supplied forms and screening tools, including a
munization status may encourage proactive recall and
means of tracking use of those that require payment for
engagement to close immunization care gaps. This may
licensed use. Although the EHR developer itself is not ex-
also help to inform proactive ordering and inventory
pected to supply these forms, a method should exist to
management to ensure no opportunity is lost to vacci-
import them from an external data source or, at a mini-
nateatthepointofcarebecauseofinadequatestock.
mum, allow documentation of the aggregated scores and
required follow-up actions. In some cases, audiovisual re-
cordings may help augment developmental assessment
GROWTH,DEVELOPMENT,ANDSOCIALDRIVERSOFHEALTH
documentation, such as those used for recording general
TRACKING
movementassessmentsinpreterminfants.34
Central to the role of pediatric clinicians is that they are
Collecting some developmental, social, and other informa-
caringforpatientsinadynamicstateofgrowth,develop-
tion in a previsit survey has now become commonplace.
ment, and social situations. Unlike adult care, the most This survey can come from the EHR’s patient portal or
important information is not the measurement itself (eg, through third-party software. Regardless of source, this in-
height, weight, development) but its rate of acceleration, formationmustbecapturedandimportedintotheEHRina
which must be compared with age-appropriate norms structured manner that supports review of trends over
(eg, by recording and presenting a percentile or z-score) time.35 Capture and use of these data must support work-
to provide meaningful information to pediatricians. The flowsforcaringfortheindividualpatientduringaclinicvisit,
EHR must support longitudinal management and visuali- chartreview,andbillingandcoding,andalsoreduceadmin-
zationofthesedata. istrativeburdensforpopulationmanagement.
PEDIATRICSVolume154,number4,October2024 3
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

SocialDrivers ofHealth support.45 If a historical weight is used to estimate a cur-
rent weight for prescriptions, the EHR should support
Sincetheearly2000s,theAAPandothergroupshavead-
methods for the clinician to determine the validity of the
vocated for standardized screening for social drivers of
health.36–38
The US Department of Health and Human
estimate, understanding that an infant’s weight will gener-
allyfluctuatemorerapidlythananadolescent’s.
Services Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promo-
Pediatricians must often write prescriptions in which
tiongroupssocialdeterminantsofhealthinto5domains:
the medication is divided in two or more labeled pack-
economic stability, education access and quality, health
ages—one for home administration and one for adminis-
care access and quality, neighborhood and built environ-
ment, and social and community context.39 Because of tration during the day at school, child care, or another
the important role these factors play on a child’s health, care setting. EHR systems should provide the capability
to generate instructions to the pharmacy to dispense
well-being, and quality of life, the EHR should support
medications in this way, along with administration in-
mechanisms to document, visualize, and provide decision
support based on these factors throughout a child’s life. structionstoteachersandchildcareworkers.
Accurate capturing of race and ethnicity data can estab-
PATIENTIDENTIFICATION
lishbaseline datatoaddress existinghealthdisparitiesin
the practice of pediatrics, with special attention to pri- Children undergo name changes because of the need to
vacy and confidentiality of such data. EHR integration of changefromatemporarynameassignedatthebirthhos-
social drivers of health that addresses parents’ and chil- pital,changesinfamilystructure,orchangesinpreferred
dren or adolescents’ information is key to not only un- name.Becauseclinicaldatamaybeconnectedtooldnames,
derstanding barriers to achieving health equity but also EHR systems should support retrieval of data via search on
to connect patients and families to available resources previous names. Ideally, these prior identifiers would trans-
and document interventions taken by providers to elimi- feracrossdisparatehealthsystems.
nate health disparities. Because of the sensitive nature of Although some EHR systems depend on the use of a
these data, special attention must be given to privacy government-issuedidentificationnumber (usuallytheSocial
andconfidentialityofthedata.40 Security number), newborn infants do not receive these
numbers forawhileafterbirth.EHRsystemsmustallow
FACILITATEDECISIONSUPPORTFORORDERS the registration of patients without such identifiers and
allow retrieval of information based on any temporary
One key argument for the benefits of using an EHR is
identifiersthatmaybeused.
that it can improve safety of medical orders.2,41 Although
An EHR system that allows storage of prenatal data
most EHR developers do not wish to develop the rules
(eg,fromafetalimagingorsurgicalprocedure)shouldallow
contained in order entry decision support, they should
the logical connection of these data to the postnatal record
support a mechanism that allows for decision support
oncethechild’srecordisestablishedinthesystem.
recommendationintegrationfrommultiplesourcesintoa
clinician’s workflow for inpatient as well as outpatient Ambiguous Sex
orders. These sources could be rules imported directly
In the case of a child with ambiguous genitalia, an EHR
into the EHR or clinical decision support service proto-
system should allow the assignment of sex as unknown
cols,likeCDSConnectandCDSHooks.21,42,43
andtooperate normallyuntilthesexof thepatient isas-
signed. Any decision support that relies on patient sex
MEDICATIONDOSING
shouldallowoperationwiththisambiguousassignment.
For medications, the EHR must provide a mechanism to
Gender Identity
integrate information from pharmacological databases
that provide recommended biometrically appropriate and Similar complexities exist in the assignment of sex under
technically deliverable doses.44 Suggested dosing parame- conditions of varying gender identity. Systems should be
ters, rounding factors, calculation steps, biometric data able to store sex assigned at birth, current gender iden-
used (eg, weight, body surface area, gestational age, or tity, and data on applicable anatomic and physiologic
chronologic age), and any special comments or considera- characteristicssothatdecisionsupportbasedonsexcon-
tionsshouldbedisplayedclearlythroughtheEHRinterface tinues to apply accurately. For example, the requirement
and persist with the order, whether transmitted via paper for a negative pregnancy test before a procedure should
or electronically. Systems should have checks to ensure apply if the patient retains a uterus. Clinicians should be
that the biometric data are current relative to expected able to select and use norms for growth and laboratory
changes for the child. For the case in which dosing guide- values based on applicable physiology. Information sur-
linesorformularybenefitsvarywithageorgestationalage, rounding gender may also be sensitive information that
the system should incorporate those data into its decision requiresspecialprovisionstosupportprivacy.
4 FROMTHEAMERICANACADEMYOFPEDIATRICS
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

NORMSFORPEDIATRICDATA Complex NormativeRelationships
Numerical Data Not all normative data are based solely on age. In the
cases of blood pressure, intracardiac measurements, or
Normal values for almost all numerical data (eg, labora-
peak flowmeter norms, values may be determined by
tory results, body measurements, vital signs, and scores age, sex, and height percentile.46,47 Therefore, clinical de-
on standardized assessments) change continuously with
cision supportthat flagsabnormal values based solely on
age and growth, so it is insufficient to provide merely a
chronologic age are insufficient for blood pressure and
handful of normative ranges. Visualizing data by plotting peak expiratory flow and may be insufficient for other
values over time will often facilitate data analysis and measurements in pediatric patients. An appropriate flag
decision-making, suchasfor laboratoryvalueslikebiliru- will include the decision logic and reference the source
bin in a newborn infant. Developers should assume that fortheconcern.
all numeric data collected in a pediatric context have
Gestational Age
changing norm values over the lifespan and should pro-
vide ways of flagging abnormal values and inappropriate For neonates, chronologic age (expressed as the time
acceleration or deceleration of consecutive values at any since birth) is insufficient for medication-prescribing de-
age. Percentile values and z-scores (number of SD from cision support, normative ranges for laboratory data,
the mean) should be available for those data for which normative definitions for physical examination findings,
the distributions are known, such as height, weight, head vital sign ranges, and guideline-application support. Ges-
circumference,andBMI. tational age, chronologic age, and corrected age are each
unique and important ways to present the age of a neo-
Data Precision nate45; EHR systems should support each of these con-
To support pediatric practice, an EHR must be able to han- ceptsforageandallowfortheiruseindecisionsupport.
dle data at appropriate numerical precision and graphical
resolution,whichmaychangeovertime.Bodyweighttothe PRIVACY
nearestgramiscommonlyacceptedasanappropriatepreci- Supporting privacy for children and caregivers requires
sioninneonatalfacilities,whereasatenthofakilogrammay granular metadata and segmentation built into every facet
bemoreappropriateforolderchildren.Asanotherexample, oftheEHR,asenumeratingeverypotentialprivacyconcern
anEHRsystemmaypresentgrowthcurvesofheight,weight, isimpossible.48Evenareasasseeminglyinnocuousasbody
and head circumference, complete with appropriate norma- weight or immunization status could lead to unintended
tive curves for comparison. However, if those curves are disclosure, such as in a patient with an eating disorder or
availableinonlyonegraphicalresolution,measurementsob- whenhepatitisBorhumanpapillomavirusvaccinationsare
tained frequently (daily weight measurements, weekly head administeredaftersexualexposure.Implementationconsid-
erations must ensure data retain their granular security
circumference measurements, etc) may become impossible
and encryption wherever stored or transmitted. For exam-
to analyze visually. Age in the newborn nursery should be
ple, medication, implanted device, and problem lists should
availableinunitsatleastdowntothehour,ifnottothemi-
retain their security and segmentation even when pulled
nute. The units for age (hours, days, weeks, months, years)
into a clinical note so that these data are available to the
need to grow with the age of the child, as appropriate. De-
medical providers who need them for directing care but
velopers of EHR systems should consider how the small
can be kept private as necessary. Supporting child privacy
changes in numeric data that one sees in the care of young
will require special attention to differential access to medi-
patientsaffectdatarecordinganddisplay.
cal data, especially with regard to adolescent and maternal
Nonnumeric Data data, family and social history, cases of abuse, and other
child-specificsituationsdescribedbelow.
Whenever an EHR system distinguishes normal from ab-
normal in nonnumeric data (eg, flagging the presence of AdolescentPrivacy
a physical sign as abnormal), it should consider age in the
Laws about age of consent vary from state to state and
interpretation of normality. For example, a system that con- dependonthepresentingproblem.49–51Adolescentsseeking
siders“unabletofeedself” auniversallyabnormalfindingin treatmentofmentalhealth disorders,forexample,may con-
the interpretation of a functional assessment is not taking senttotheirtreatmentatanearlieragethantheageofma-
the developmentally normal capabilities of young children jorityinmoststates.52Somestatesalsohavelawsregarding
into account. Another example is “fall risk,” which should parental notification whereby interpretation is based on the
be able to transition dynamically from a “drop risk,” to patient’s age and presenting problem.53 Practices that serve
“developmentallyappropriatefalls,” andeventually to atrue adolescentstypicallyhavepolicieswithrespecttowhatpor-
“fallrisk.” tion of an adolescent’s care should be handled with special
PEDIATRICSVolume154,number4,October2024 5
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

privacyprotections(eg,insomejurisdictions,theadolescent via a portal may empower them to take ownership of their
must give explicit permission for the parent to review their ownhealthandaidtransitiontoadulthood.59
records).Theseprivacyprotectionsmayrequiretheflagging Adolescent medical records will contain some informa-
of protected information; therefore, EHR systems should tion that must be shared with caregivers to allow them
supportdatasegmentationand privacy policiesthat varyby tocarefortheadolescent’smedicalneeds,suchasevaluation
age,accordingtopresentingproblems,diagnoses,andorders and treatment of most acute and chronic conditions. The
(ie, medications, laboratory tests, and imaging studies) and EHRportalshouldallowdifferential(segmented)accesspro-
be flexible enough to handle the policies of individual tection to various data. Caregivers and adolescents should
practices. each have discrete login credentials, which would in turn
If an EHR system handles record keeping for consent providetiereddataaccess.68,69Ideally,theadolescentshould
for treatment, it should provide for the recording of as- be able to control the information dissemination directly
sent for treatment (from an underaged adolescent or withintheportaloritsmobileapplication.
child) combined with parental informed consent54,55 as
MaternalData inthe Child’sChart
well as consent for treatment (from an adolescent) com-
bined with a record of parental involvement.54 The sepa- The AAP has great concerns that sensitive maternal
ration of the patient’s consent or assent and the parent’s information (eg, opioid use, domestic violence) may
or guardian’s consent is particularly important in the be disclosed inappropriately, such as to another care-
areas of testing for drugs or alcohol, screening for sexu- giver through a patient portal.8,70 Allowing access to
ally transmitted infections, outpatient mental health care, this information may violate the parent’s privacy and put
and prenatal care and delivery services. These circum- bothparentandinfantatrisk,whichwouldreducethelike-
stances may also be impacted by local jurisdiction, which lihoodofseekingmedicalcareinthefuture.Ataminimum,
may additionally draw a distinction between the right to maternaldataandpotentially inferentialdata,likeneonatal
consent for services and the right to privacy for health opiate withdrawal scores, neonatal testing, or treatment of
informationrelatedtothoseservices.56–58 sexually transmitted infections, should retain metadata tag-
Enabling appropriate external access to adolescent ging and encryption that can trigger additional safeguards
health information continues to be one of the largest surrounding disclosure. Although defining these safeguards
challengespediatriciansfaceinofferingpatientportalaccess lies beyond the scope of this report, ensuring such tagging
to their patients, especially with the stringent information- exists and is appropriately retained during information
blocking restrictions imposed by the 21st Century Cures transfer is critical to allow safeguards to be built, including
Act.8,48,59,60 Risks of privacy violations need to be transpar- those that may eventually limit a child’s access to nones-
enttotheadolescentpatients,andanydisclosureshouldoc- sential maternal information once they are able to access
cur with the assent of the adolescent. EHR and portal theirownrecords.
default privacy settings should be strict, comply with state
and federal laws, and facilitate privacy throughout the DYNAMICCAREGIVERSTRUCTURES
health care information
journey.61–64
Unfortunately, sensi- Childrencanhaveavarietyofcaregivers,includingparents,
tive information is often transmitted in ways that fail to grandparents, step-parents, foster families, staff at group
maintain its sensitive status (eg, when a report is scanned homes, and a host of other possibilities. Any of these indi-
as an image or when revealing billing information, such as viduals or other associated adults may accompany a child
sexually transmitted infection or pregnancy testing, is sent for a health care visit. The variety of caregivers generates
toaparentorguarantor). uncertainties about who may provide and receive medical
Unfortunately, research has shown that more than half information and who may consent for medical treatments
of adolescent portals were likely accessed by the guardian andimmunizations.TheEHRmustsupporttheongoingdoc-
using the adolescent’s credentials, diminishing the results of umentation of a wide complex of dynamic family and living
segmentation efforts.65,66 Authentication to ensure that the structures and must clearly indicate who is allowed to re-
individual logging in is not an imposter—even a parent—is ceive medical information and who can make decisions for
important.67AnEHRsystemthatsharespotentiallysensitive the child, and it must keep a historical record of these de-
data must use modern identity confirmation techniques (eg, tailsaslivingcircumstanceschange.
2-factorauthentication),preferablywithbiometricsincombi-
Childrenin ChildWelfare ProtectiveCustody
nationwithquestionsthatcanonlybeansweredbythecor-
rect user, in addition to the common practice of usernames When a child is removed from their family of origin and
and passwords. Although the easiest workaround is simply placed in child welfare protective custody such as foster
to disallow external access to adolescent health information, care, complex issues of consent and confidentiality of
this approach prevents adolescents from communicating in medical information arise.71,72 The child will be living
one of their preferredmethods.Interactingwith adolescents withadultswhodonotholdcustodyofthechildandwill
6 FROMTHEAMERICANACADEMYOFPEDIATRICS
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

often present for medical care with individuals who do not child’s care and under what limitations.73 EHR systems
have the ability to provide medical consent or receive all that manage consent for treatment should support re-
medical information. The EHR should support documenta- cordingthisinformation.
tion of medical decision-making and health information
sharing abilities and limitations for those involved in the EMERGENCYTREATMENT
child’scare,includingwhohasauthoritytoconsenttotreat-
WhenEHRsystems supportthe recording of consentand
ment, with references to appropriate legal documentation
assent for treatment, they should be flexible enough to
as necessary. An EHR system should allow reasonable ac-
allow for the emergency treatment of minors, in which
cess to custodians and court appointed attorneys to the
the parent or legal guardian may be absent, and the
medical information within the confines of applicable state
usualproceduresforconsentmustchange.49
lawandprivacyregulations.Althoughcaregiversmaynotbe
grantedaccesstothecompletemedicalrecord,theyoughtto
OTHERPROTECTEDPOPULATIONS
be able to communicate about appointments and access the
minimal amount of information necessary to manage the The EHR should support special privacy protection for
health careoffosterchildrenintheircare(eg,accessingim- cases of child abuse and neglect. The Health Insurance
munizationrecordsinpreparationforschoolenrollmentand Portability and Accountability Act (45 CFR §164.502(g))
being aware of prescriptions or other medical treatments). allows for preventing access to health information by pa-
Such access will require careful implementation of patient rentsorguardianswhenthechildoradolescenthasbeen
portals specifically designed for use by caregivers, with ap- or may be subject to abuse or neglect by that person or
propriatelimitationsonthedurationofaccessandsufficient ifdisclosureofthisinformationisnotinthebestinterest
authentication methods to prevent inappropriate access. ofthechildormayendangerthem.TheEHRshould have
When a child is in the temporary custody of child welfare, systems in place to prevent access to protected images
thefamilyoforigintypicallymaintainsrightstoreceivemed- taken during a medical evaluation for potential physical
icalinformationandmayneedtoprovideconsentforcertain abuse,sexualabuse,orsexualassault.
medical decisions (eg, surgeries). Family of origin must be
considered in the careful implementation of information GENETICINFORMATION
sharing in patient portals, supporting bidirectional confi-
Geneticdata,becauseofthepotentialforstigma,discrim-
dentiality for family of origin, caregivers, and placement
ination, or bias if public, are challenging for providers.
location. Access must remain dynamic to allow changes
Genetic analysis can be beneficial for patients because it
toaccessifasafetyconcernarisesorthechild’slegalsta-
may uncover diagnoses otherwise missed and inform
tus changes, such as restoring full access to a family of
subsequent treatments. However, broad genetic testing
origin when a child is reunited and custody is returned
mightalsoidentifygenesthatareclinicallyimportantbut
orterminatingaccessifparentalrightsareterminated.
not actionable in childhood, such as a BRCA mutation.
Adoption Many genetic tests of a predictive nature (eg, Huntington
disease or Lynch syndrome), once disclosed, have signifi-
Records of children undergoing adoption proceedings
cant repercussions to the life of the individual and their
and those who have been adopted may need special pri-
family. Genetic testing may also reveal nonpaternity,
vacy handling. In cases where state law offers special
leading to significant effects on family dynamics.74 Al-
protectionsfortheidentityofbirthparents,EHRsystems
though research continues in thisspecific area,at amini-
should allow flagging and special privacy protection. In
mum, the EHR should facilitate an embargo on genetic
accordance with state laws, preadoption records may
information.
need to have names or other identifying information re-
dacted or permanently locked. In situations in which an
ACCESSTOEXTERNALINFORMATION
adopted child is not initially made aware of their adop-
tion, it is important to recognize that the information ul- One of the key requirements for an effective EHR is the
timately belongs to thatadoptedpersonwhen theyreach abilitytointeractwithanddigestexternaldata,including
theageofmajority. both from other clinical sources (eg, a hospital or clinic)
and from device- and patient-generated data. To operate
Consent byProxy
effectively as a medical home for children, primary care
Children often present for nonurgent health care in the providers must be able to access subspecialty and care
company of an adult who is not the custodial parent or support encounter notes. Pediatricians may find particu-
guardian. The best way to prevent confusion about con- lar benefit in systems that can connect with nonhealth
sent for care in this situation is to record the custodial system sources, such as schools, community health part-
parents’ wishes as to which adult can consent to which ners,andothers.
PEDIATRICSVolume154,number4,October2024 7
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

Another form of interoperability would allow patients that an EHR developer can use to support substitutable ap-
the opportunity to upload personal data from fitness plications or web services embedded in the EHR.21,78 Some
trackers, weight scales, blood pressure monitors,glucom- of the earliest functioning applications that use this para-
eters, and other health-connected technology. Pediatri- digm are pediatric focused, often building functionality for
cians may want to consider implementing systems that areas where standard EHR implementations have fallen
haveaframeworkforaccepting thesedata.Formedically short, including aninteractivegrowth chart app,aninterac-
complex children with technology dependency, the inte- tive neonatal hyperbilirubinemia decision support tool, and
gration of data from their devices is critical. The care a child blood pressure percentiles application.79 The substi-
team should be able to see their data in flowsheets and tutable nature of these applications eliminate the need for
align them temporally with other time series data to as- pediatricians to develop the content and can empower indi-
certainacompleteviewofthepatient’shealth. vidual pediatricians and groups to use quality resources de-
Thosewishingtodesignsoftwareavailableforchildren velopedbyothersandfindthebestfitfortheirpractices.
must follow relevant guidelines from the Children’s On-
line Privacy Protection Rule.75 These services should also ARTIFICIALINTELLIGENCEANDPRECISIONMEDICINE
function without requiring the child to have their own
Machinelearningandartificialintelligencerepresentavari-
phone. Apps that integrate must be able to recognize
ety of algorithms in which data are used to train computer
proxy integration. If the target is the parent but needs
algorithmstosolvecomplextasks.Machinelearningcanbe
the child’s information, the app must be careful as to
used to process heterogenous data types including numeri-
which is used. If left unchecked, an app that interprets
caldata;imagingdatasuchas2-dimensional,3-dimensional,
data outside an appropriate pediatric context may lead
and video data; written text; spoken text; and streaming
topatientharm.Caregiversmustunderstandboththese-
data. These algorithms can be very powerful, but their effi-
curity and privacy risks of allowing access to a minor’s
cacyandbestpracticesarecurrentlybeingassessed.These
data. EHRs can help by providing plain-language guid-
tools may or may not have validated pediatric approvals
anceaboutpotentialrisks.
andshouldbemanagedwithcaution.
Transferlearningisatechniquethatusesresultsofexist-
PEDIATRICEHRSYSTEMFUNCTIONALITYSTANDARDS
ing models to bootstrap learning for new tasks. A model
Health Level Seven International, a not-for-profit health learning to distinguish pictures of airplanes from birds
care data-standards organization, created the Health Level might benefit by pretraining with results from one trained
Seven International EHR-System Functional Model specifica- to distinguish automobiles from pedestrians. A danger in-
tiontodefinethefunctionsforEHRsystemfunctionsthrough herent in transfer learning and machine learning in general
its Electronic Health Record Technical Committee.53,76 This is that it can introduce inductive bias into a system.80,81 A
functional model was used as the basis for the Child Health model that performs well in adult medicine might generate
Profile,which attempted to describe the modifications to the surprisingresultsinapediatricpopulation.Anyartificialin-
model needed to create an effective tool for child health.77 telligence or machine learning model being considered for
This standard is being used as the basis for the EHR system implementation in pediatrics should be trained and bench-
certification process specified by the federal Office of marked with representative pediatric data to help mitigate
the National Coordinator for Health Information Technol- any biases inherent in the model. However, such models
ogy. The purpose of certification is to set a minimum level and applications must also consider special privacy protec-
offunctionalitythatEHRsystemswillhavetomeettoqual- tions surrounding the storage and use of a minor’s data,
ify for special treatment, such as participation in pay-for- suchasmightbegeneratedwhileusingadigitalscribe.
performanceprograms.8,51,52
TELEHEALTHCAPABILITIESEMBEDDEDINTOEHRS
EXTENSIBILITY
EHRsystemsarenolongeronlydocumentation,datareposi-
Although electronic health record usability has improved tory, and ordering systems. They have become “holistic” in
throughout the past decade, there remain several avenues thesenseofpromotingabetterandmoreefficientencounter
for innovation, particularly in pediatrics. One specific oppor- experience between the patient and care team. To that end,
tunitywouldbetocreateastandardframeworktointegrate some EHRs have added telemedicine capabilities. Pediatrics
clinical practice guidelines into electronic health records. presents some unique care scenarios that use telemedicine.
Thiswouldsupportefficientimplementationofclinicalprac- For example, school-based health care can benefit from
tice guidelines in the pediatric practice, which can signifi- telemedicine capabilities that allow subspecialists and
cantlyenhancethequalityofcareofpatients. primary care physicians to communicate with school
The Substitutable Medical Applications, Reusable Tech- nurses. Expanding telehealth capabilities in the EHR may
nologies initiative is a specific example of a framework also help provide subspecialty pediatric care to patients
8 FROMTHEAMERICANACADEMYOFPEDIATRICS
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

and geographic areas that have traditionally been diffi- The AAP is working proactively to ensure that knowledge-
culttoserve. able pediatricians who can thoroughly explain child health
care issues are invited to address the groups that set these
OTHERPEDIATRICFUNCTIONS standards. This report should serve as a guide for these ef-
fortstorepresenttheinterestsofchildhealthcareproviders
This report outlines the major areas of functionality that
andpresentaguidetoindividualpractitionerswhoareeval-
are relatively more important in pediatric care than in
uating a given system’s ability to perform in the pediatric
adult care. There are, of course, many other functions
environment.
thatareimportant,includingthefollowing:
COUNCILONCLINICALINFORMATIONTECHNOLOGY
(cid:1) Archive and manage patient data for a statutorily de-
EXECUTIVECOMMITTEE,2023–2024
finedperiod.
(cid:1) Provide educational materials that are appropriate to SrinivasanSuresh,MD,MBA,FAAP,Chairperson
JuanD.Chaparro,MD,MS,FAAP
parentsandchildrenandatvaryingreadinglevels.
(cid:1) Createpedigreediagrams. KathrynCheek,MD,FAAP
(cid:1) Display age and weight at all times throughout the KevinR.Dufendach,MD,MS,FAAP
MarvinB.Harper,MD,FAAP
userinterface.
(cid:1) Select age-based documentation templates and order BrandanP.Kennedy,MD,FAAP
setsbasedonapatient’sage. EliM.Lourie,MD,FAAP
(cid:1) Indicate whether a guideline applies to a patient based
HeatherC.O’Donnell,MD,FAAP
LindsayStevens,MD,FAAP
onage.
(cid:1) Indicate the source of patient data, especially when MelissaS.VanCain,MD,FAAP
AndrewM.Wiesenthal,MD,MS,FAAP
the source is not the patient or the parent (eg, the
DavidChartash,PhD,LiaisontoSectiononPediatricTrainees
schoolteacherorchildcareworker).
Francis Chan, MD, FAAP, Liaison to Section on Advances
inTherapeuticsandTechnology
THEFUTUREOFTHEPEDIATRICEHRSYSTEM
In the wake of the rapid uptake of EHR systems in the STAFF
yearssincethefirst AAPstatement,7,13,82 nationalgroups
LisaKrams,MS
have expressed increased interest in standardizing the
features of EHR systems and certifying their functions.82
Child health care providers want to ensure that pediatric ABBREVIATIONS
functions, terminology, and data precision are built into AAP:AmericanAcademyofPediatrics
these standards and certification processes. Pediatric care CDC:CentersforDiseaseControlandPrevention
providers want this not only to make their own systems EHR:electronichealthrecord
more effective in improving the health of children but also IIS:immunizationinformationsystem
tomakeallEHRsystemsmoreusefulforpatientsofallages.
AddresscorrespondencetoKevinR.Dufendach,MD,MS,FAAP.E-mail:kevin@dufendach.net
PEDIATRICS(ISSNNumbers:Print,0031-4005;Online,1098-4275).
Copyright©2024bytheAmericanAcademyofPediatrics
FUNDING:Noexternalfunding.
FINANCIAL/CONFLICTOFINTERESTDISCLOSURE:Theauthorshaveindicatedtheyhavenopotentialconflictsofinteresttodisclose.
REFERENCES medication management system to reduce medication errors, ad-
1.Koppel R, Lehmann CU. Implications of an emerging EHR mono- versedrugeventsandaveragelengthofstayattwopaediatrichos-
culture for hospitals and healthcare systems. J Am Med Inform pitals:astudyprotocol.BMJOpen.2016;6(10):e011811
Assoc.2015;22(2):465–471
3.GeorgeJA,ParkPS,HunsbergerJ,etal.Ananalysisof34,218pe-
2.Westbrook JI, Li L, Raban MZ, et al. Stepped-wedge cluster rando- diatric outpatient controlled substance prescriptions. Anesth
mised controlled trial to assess the effectiveness of an electronic Analg.2016;122(3):807–813
PEDIATRICSVolume154,number4,October2024 9
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

4.Slight SP, Berner ES, Galanter W, et al. Meaningful use of elec- 19.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. IIS 2018-2020 strat-
tronic healthrecords: experiences from the field and future op- egyinitiativeandplanintroduction.Availableat:https://www.cdc.
portunities.JMIRMedInform.2015;3(3):e30 gov/vaccines/programs/iis/strategic-plan/iis-2018-2020.html. Accessed
April7,2022
5.DufendachKR,EichenbergerJA,McPheetersML,etal.CoreFunc-
tionalityinPediatricElectronicHealthRecords.AgencyforHealth- 20.WeinbergST,MonsenC,LehmannCU,LeuMG;CouncilonClinical
careResearchandQuality;2015 Information Technology. Integrating web services/applications to
improvepediatricfunctionalitiesinelectronichealthrecords.Pe-
6.LehmannCU;CouncilonClinicalInformationTechnology.Pediatric
diatrics.2021;148(1):e2021052047
aspectsofinpatienthealthinformationtechnologysystems.Pedi-
atrics.2015;135(3):e756–e768 21.LeuMG,WeinbergST,MonsenC,LehmannCU;CouncilonClinical
InformationTechnology.Webservicesandcloudcomputinginpe-
7.Temple MW, Sisk B, Krams LA, Schneider JH, Kirkendall ES,
diatriccare.Pediatrics.2021;148(1):e2021052048
LehmannCU.Trendsinuseofelectronichealthrecordsinpe-
diatricofficesettings.JPediatr.2019;206:164–171.e2 22.HackellJ,PalevskyS,ResnickM;CommitteeonPracticeandAm-
bulatory Medicine; Council on Clinical Information Technology;
8.BonamiciS.Text-H.R.34-114thCongress(2015-2016):21stCen-
Section on Early Career Physicians. Immunization information
tury Cures Act. Available at: https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-
systems.Pediatrics.2022;150(4):e2022059281
congress/house-bill/34/text.AccessedMarch8,2022
23.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Immunization regis-
9.Health IT. Workforce compentencies for patient-centered health tryprogress–UnitedStates,2002. MMWRMorbMortal WklyRep.
care delivery through health IT: a framework for practice trans- 2002;51(34):760–762
formation. Available at: https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/
24.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Immunization infor-
pcmh_role-based_competencies.pdf.AccessedOctober4,2018
mation system progress–United States, 2003. MMWR Morb Mor-
10.AsarnowJR,KolkoDJ,MirandaJ,KazakAE.Thepediatricpatient- talWklyRep.2005;54(29):722–724
centered medical home: Innovative models for improving behav-
25.MillerPL, FrawleySJ, Sayward FG.Issuesin computer-basedde-
ioralhealth.AmPsychol.2017;72(1):13–27
cision support in public health illustrated using projects involv-
11.OfficeoftheNationalCoordinatorforHealthInformationTechnol- ing childhood immunization. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2001;
ogy. Strategy on reducing regulatory and administrative burden 7(6):75–86
relating to the use of health IT and EHRs. Available at: https://
26.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Growth charts -
www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/page/2020-02/BurdenReport_
homepage. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/growthcharts/index.
0.pdf.AccessedApril7,2022
htm.AccessedApril7,2022
12.AmericanAcademyofPediatrics,TaskForceonMedicalInformat-
27.FentonTR,KimJH. Asystematic review andmeta-analysistore-
ics. Special requirements forelectronic medical record systems
vise the Fenton growth chart for preterm infants. BMC Pediatr.
inpediatrics.Pediatrics.2001;108(2):513–515
2013;13:59
13.LehmannCU,O’ConnorKG,ShorteVA,JohnsonTD.Useofelectronic
28.Rosenbloom ST, Qi X, Riddle WR, et al. Implementing pediatric
health record systems by office-based pediatricians. Pediatrics. growth charts into an electronic health record system. J Am
2015;135(1):e7–e15 MedInformAssoc.2006;13(3):302–308
14.Brody M, Dickenson G, Janczewski M, Ritter J, Hufnagel S, Yu F. 29.Rosenbloom ST, McGregor TL, Chen Q, An AQ, Hsu S, Dupont WD.
HL7 EHRS-FM release 2.1 pediatric care health IT functional pro- Specialized pediatric growth charts for electronic health record
filerelease1;USrealm.Availableat:https://confluence.hl7.org/ systems:theexampleofdownsyndrome.AMIAAnnuSympProc.
display/EHR/Pediatric+Care+Health+IT+Functional+Profile+-+ 2010;2010:687–691
Project?preview=/91993486/120752709/pchit%20overview.pdf.
30.ThompsonC,MargoT,YuFB,LehmannCU.Developingapediatric
AccessedMarch23,2023
EHR testing & certification program in the USA: initial phase.
15.USCongress.NationalChildhoodVaccineInjuryActof1986.Vol42. StudHealthTechnolInform.2022;290:1020
Available at: https://www.congress.gov/bill/99th-congress/house-
31.Sices L, Stancin T, Kirchner L, Bauchner H. PEDS and ASQ devel-
bill/5546#:(cid:3):text=Provides%20that%20no%20vaccine%20manufacturer,
opmentalscreeningtestsmaynotidentifythesamechildren.Pe-
failure%20to%20provide%20direct%20warnings.AccessedAugust27, diatrics.2009;124(4):e640-647–e647
2024
32.Limbos MM, Joyce DP. Comparison of the ASQ and PEDS in
16.Leads from the MMWR. National Childhood Vaccine Injury screeningfordevelopmentaldelayinchildrenpresentingfor
Act: requirements for permanent vaccination records and primarycare.JDevBehavPediatr.2011;32(7):499–511
for reporting of selected events after vaccination. JAMA. 1988;
33.Thomas SA, Cotton W, Pan X, Ratliff-Schaub K. Comparison of
259(17):2527–2528
systematic developmental surveillance with standardized de-
17.Smith MH. National Childhood Vaccine Injury Compensation Act. velopmentalscreeninginprimarycare.ClinPediatr(Phila).2012;
Pediatrics.1988;82(2):264–269 51(2):154–159
18.DiekemaDS;AmericanAcademyofPediatricsCommitteeonBio- 34.Ferrari F, Cioni G, Prechtl HFR. Qualitative changes of general
ethics. Responding to parental refusals of immunization of chil- movementsinpreterminfantswithbrainlesions.EarlyHumDev.
dren.Pediatrics.2005;115(5):1428–1431 1990;23(3):193–231
10 FROMTHEAMERICANACADEMYOFPEDIATRICS
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

35.Kumah-Crystal YA, Stein PM, Chen Q, et al. Before-visit question- 52.VukadinovichDM.Minors’rightstoconsenttotreatment:navigating
naire: a tool to augment communication and decrease provider thecomplexityofStatelaws.JHealthLaw.2004;37(4):667–691
documentation burden in pediatric diabetes. Appl Clin Inform.
53.Ford C, English A, Sigman G. Confidential health careforadoles-
2021;12(5):969–978
cents: position paper of the Society for Adolescent Medicine.
36.SokolR,AustinA,ChandlerC,etal.Screeningchildrenforsocial JournalofAdolescentHealth.2004;35(2):160–167
determinantsof health: asystematicreview. Pediatrics. 2019;144(4):
54.KatzAL,WebbSA,MacauleyRC,etal;CommitteeonBioethics.In-
e20191622
formed consent in decision-making in pediatric practice. Pediat-
37.Schor EL; American Academy of Pediatrics, Task Force on the rics.2016;138(2):e20161485
Family.Familypediatrics:reportoftheTaskForceontheFamily.
55.Kuther TL. Medical decision-making and minors: issues of con-
Pediatrics.2003;111(6Pt2):1541–1571
sentandassent.Adolescence.2003;38(150):343–358
38.CouncilonCommunityPediatrics.Povertyandchildhealthinthe
56.Levy S, Siqueira LM, Ammerman SD, et al; Committee on Sub-
UnitedStates.Pediatrics.2016;137(4):e20160339
stanceAbuse.Testingfordrugsofabuseinchildrenandadoles-
39.Healthy People 2030. Social determinants of health. Available at: cents.Pediatrics.2014;133(6):e1798–e1807
https://health.gov/healthypeople/priority-areas/social-determinants-
57.HornbergerLL,BreunerCC,etal;CommitteeonAdolescence.
health.AccessedJuly11,2023
Diagnosisofpregnancyandprovidingoptionscounselingfor
40.Narayan A, Raphael J, Rattler T, Bocchini C. Social determinants theadolescentpatient.Pediatrics.2017;140(3):e20172273
of health screening in the clinical setting. Available at: https://
58.Hornberger LL; Committee on Adolescence. Options counseling
www.texaschildrens.org/sites/default/files/uploads/documents/831
for the pregnant adolescent patient. Pediatrics. 2017;140(3):
76%20BRIEF%20Social%20Determinants%20of%20Health%20Policy
e20172274
%20Digital.pdf.AccessedJuly11,2023
59.SharkoM,WilcoxL,HongMK,AnckerJS.Variabilityinadolescent
41.Johnson KB, Lehmann CU; Council on Clinical Information Technol-
portalprivacyfeatures:howtheuniqueprivacyneedsofthead-
ogy of the AmericanAcademy of Pediatrics. Electronic prescribing
olescent patient create a complex decision-making process. J
inpediatrics:towardsaferandmoreeffectivemedicationmanage- AmMedInformAssoc.2018;25(8):1008–1017
ment.Pediatrics.2013;131(4):e1350–e1356
60.Pasternak RH, Alderman EM, English A. 21st Century Cures Act
42.CDS Connect. Welcome to CDS connect. Available at: https://cds.
ONC rule: implications for adolescent care and confidentiality
ahrq.gov/cdsconnect.AccessedApril7,2022
protections.Pediatrics.2023;151(Suppl1):e2022057267K
43.CDS Hooks. CDS Hooks. Available at: https://cds-hooks.hl7.org/.
61.Committee on Adolescent Health Care. ACOG committee opinion
AccessedApril7,2022
no.599:adolescentconfidentialityandelectronichealthrecords.
44.Scharnweber C, Lau BD, Mollenkopf N, Thiemann DR, Veltri MA, ObstetGynecol.2014;123(5):1148–1150
LehmannCU.Evaluationofmedicationdosealertsinpediatricin-
62.Blythe MJ, Del Beccaro MA; Committee on Adolescence; Council
patients.IntJMedInform.2013;82(8):676–683
on Clinical and Information Technology. Standards for health in-
45.Engle WA; American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Fetus formation technology to ensure adolescent privacy. Pediatrics.
andNewborn.Ageterminologyduringtheperinatalperiod.Pedi- 2012;130(5):987–990
atrics.2004;114(5):1362–1364
63.Swartz MK. Protecting the privacy rights of adolescents. J Pe-
46.NationalHighBloodPressureEducationProgramWorkingGroup diatrHealthCare.2013;27(3):161
on High Blood Pressure in Children andAdolescents. The fourth
64.Anoshiravani A, Gaskin GL, Groshek MR, Kuelbs C, Longhurst CA.
reportonthediagnosis,evaluation,andtreatmentofhighblood
Special requirements for electronic medical records in adoles-
pressure in children and adolescents. Pediatrics. 2004;114(2 centmedicine.JAdolescHealth.2012;51(5):409–414
Suppl4thReport):555–576
65.Steitz B, Cronin RM, Davis SE, Yan E, Jackson GP. Long-term pat-
47.Tattersfield A, Cooper B. Lung function. Assessment and applica-
ternsofpatientportaluseforpediatricpatientsatanacademic
tion in medicine, 5th edition. Occup Environ Med. 1994;51(8): medicalcenter.ApplClinInform.2017;8(3):779–793
576.2–576
66.IpW,YangS,ParkerJ,etal.Assessmentofprevalenceofadoles-
48.Schapiro NA, Mihaly LK. The 21st Century Cures Act and chal-
cent patient portal account access by guardians. JAMA Netw
lenges to adolescent confidentiality. J Pediatr Health Care. 2021;
Open.2021;4(9):e2124733
35(4):439–442
67.HeathS. Balancing patient portal privacy and access for pediat-
49.Committee on Pediatric Emergency Medicine and Committee on
riccare.Availableat:https://patientengagementhit.com/features/
Bioethics. Consent for emergency medical services for children
balancing-patient-portal-privacy-and-access-for-pediatric-care. Ac-
andadolescents.Pediatrics.2011;128(2):427–433
cessedApril8,2022
50.Society for Adolescent Medicine. Access to health care for ado-
68.Bourgeois FC, Taylor PL, Emans SJ, Nigrin DJ, Mandl KD. Whose
lescentsandyoungadults.JAdolescHealth.2004;35(4):342–344
personal control? Creating private, personally controlled health
51.Dickens BM, Cook RJ. Adolescentsand consent to treatment.Int recordsforpediatricandadolescentpatients.JAmMedInform
JGynaecolObstet.2005;89(2):179–184 Assoc.2008;15(6):737–743
PEDIATRICSVolume154,number4,October2024 11
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026

69.Arvisais-AnhaltS,LauM,LehmannCU,etal.The21stCenturyCures 01/17/2012-31341/childrens-online-privacy-protection-rule. Accessed
Actandmultiuserelectronichealthrecordaccess:potentialpitfalls March23,2023
ofinformationrelease.JMedInternetRes.2022;24(2):e34085
76.Meehan RA, Mon DT, Kelly KM, et al. Increasing EHR system us-
70.American Academy of Pediatrics. Pediatric information blocking ability through standards: conformance criteria in the HL7 EHR-
usecases.Availableat:https://www.aap.org/en/practice-management/ systemfunctionalmodel.JBiomedInform.2016;63:169–173
health-information-technology/pediatric-information-blocking-use-cases/.
77.Wald JS, Rizk S, Webb JR, et al. Children’s EHR Format Enhance-
AccessedMarch23,2023
ment:FinalRecommendationReport.AHRQPublication;2015
71.American Academy of Pediatrics, Committee on Early Childhood,
78.Mandel JC, Kreda DA, Mandl KD, Kohane IS, Ramoni RB. SMART
Adoption, and Dependent Care. Health care of young children in
fostercare.Pediatrics.2002;109(3):536–541 on FHIR: a standards-based, interoperable apps platform for
electronic health records. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2016;23(5):
72.Jones VF, Schulte EE, Waite D; Council on Foster Care, Adoption,
899–908
andKinshipCare.Pediatricianguidanceinsupportingfamiliesof
children who are adopted, fostered, or in kinship care. Pediat- 79.SMARTAppGallery.SMARThealthITproject.Availableat:https://
rics.2020;146(6):e2020034629 apps.smarthealthit.org/apps.AccessedApril8,2022
73.Fanaroff JM; Committee on Medical Liability and Risk Manage- 80.Bossens DM, Townsend NC, Sobey AJ. Learningtolearn with ac-
ment.Consentbyproxyfornonurgentpediatriccare.Pediatrics. tiveadaptiveperception.NeuralNetw.2019;115:30–49
2017;139(2):e20163911 81.SolomonidesAE,KoskiE,AtabakiSM,etal.DefiningAMIA’sartificial
74.LiD,LiaoC.Incidentaldiscoveryofnonpaternityduringprenatal intelligenceprinciples.JAmMedInformAssoc.2022;29(4):585–591
testingofgeneticdisease.FetalDiagnTher.2008;24(1):39–41
82.Kemper AR, Uren RL, Clark SJ. Adoption of electronic health re-
75.Federal Trade Commission. Children’s online privacy protection cords in primary care pediatric practices. Pediatrics. 2006;118(1):
rule. Available at: https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2013/ e20–e24
12 FROMTHEAMERICANACADEMYOFPEDIATRICS
Downloaded from http://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article-pdf/154/4/e2024068509/1717386/peds.2024-068509.pdf
by guest
on 23 February 2026