June 16, 2025
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244-8013
Re: CMS-0042-NC.
Dr. Mehmet Oz:
Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information (RFI) on the Health
Technology Ecosystem and contribute to this important dialogue by sharing insights most relevant
to Contexture and other health information exchange (HIE) organizations.
Contexture is one of the nation's leading HIEs, serving Arizona and Colorado, and the largest health
information organization in the Western region. As a nonprofit, we support secure, interoperable
data exchange for approximately twenty-eight (28) million patients across thousands of healthcare
organizations (See Figure 1), including hospitals, physician practices, behavioral health providers,
long-term care facilities, and public health agencies.
Founded on the principle that connected care improves outcomes, Contexture operates as a
neutral intermediary and infrastructure partner that bridges the gap between disparate healthcare
systems, enabling access to longitudinal patient data at the point of care. Our success (See Figure
2) reflects sustained public and private investment in high-performing HIEs that are responsive to
community needs.
In our response we focus on three areas where CMS can drive impact: (1) accelerating the use of
FHIR APIs while recognizing current adoption patterns; (2) leveraging high-performing HIEs as
proven, community-based infrastructure; and (3) aligning TEFCA with state-level and domain-
specific needs. We offer these insights with the goal of supporting shared objectives.
We welcome continued collaboration with CMS and ASTP/ONC.
Sincerely,
Melissa A. Kotrys, MPH
Chief Executive Officer
1

I. CMS and ASTP/ONC requested feedback on a Nationwide Provider Directory
of FHIR Endpoints, the role of HIEs in supporting patient access to health
information, and the evolving role of HIEs within broader health data
exchange frameworks.
A. High-Performing HIEs: A Foundational Component of Modern Healthcare Systems
*PC-5, PC-10, PC-11, PC-12, PR-1, PR-2, PR-8, TD-2, TD-12, TD-17, VB-2, VB-3,
VB-4.
High-performing HIEs like Contexture are essential to today’s healthcare ecosystem and already
deliver outcomes aligned with CMS priorities. As a trusted, statewide health data utility (HDU),
Contexture integrates diverse data sources to provide secure, scalable, and actionable data
services for providers, payers, Medicaid, public health agencies, and social services. By connecting
fragmented EHR systems and care settings, we offer timely, comprehensive patient records—
critical for informed clinical decisions and smooth care transitions.
What sets Contexture and other top-tier HIEs apart is their scale, stability, and trust—rooted in
rigorous governance, strong community relationships, and alignment with diverse stakeholders.
HIEs offer measurable cost savings and complement, not compete with, emerging national
exchange frameworks. Return on investment (ROI) analyses show that providers using
Contexture's proven PatientCare 360 and Results Delivery tools reduced emergency department
visits by 29% and inpatient admissions by 40% among Medicaid patients. ACO Partners, a large
accountable care organization, saved $2.1 million over two years by using Contexture’s HIE
services for 58,000. We encourage further research into similar outcomes among other high-
performing HIEs.
HIEs are indispensable for regional and state-level data aggregation, especially in public health and
cross-network care coordination. Our local roots and understanding of community-specific needs
allow us to deliver relevant data that national networks may overlook. Over two decades,
Contexture has shown how public investment can build sustainable, high-impact networks. In
Colorado and Arizona, we partnered with state agencies to align with policy goals, improving care
for Medicaid populations and reducing duplication.
As critical infrastructure, HIEs provide real-time emergency department and inpatient alerts,
longitudinal records, and daily-use tools that support care for dual eligibles, high-risk patients, and
those with complex chronic conditions. Providers consistently report better care coordination and
efficiency, with one home care organization noting how HIE notifications eliminated wasted visits
when HIE alerts showed recent patient hospitalization, while another provider halved admissions
hospital admissions for its highest utilizers (See Figure 3).
Contexture also improves government efficiency. Public health and Medicaid agencies report that
partnering with us saves weeks—or months—otherwise spent gathering hospital data manually.
Emerging national models for data exchange should be designed to complement, not displace,
these well-established, regionally rooted HIE organizations. CMS should recognize, and build upon,
the existing HIE ecosystem, as these organizations serve as a natural complement to federal
2

frameworks and are uniquely positioned to help CMS achieve digital health transformation goals
in a cost-effective and state-aligned manner.
We suggest CMS and ASTP/ONC consider:
• Establishing federal funding or incentive programs to support HIE infrastructure.
• Recognizing and expanding existing HIE infrastructure.
• Integrating HIE data into public health systems, supporting value-added services like
population health analytics, care coordination, and quality reporting.
B. National Provider Directory Infrastructure: Architecture and Network Integration
*PR-5, PR-10, PA-4, TD-5, VB-15.
A nationwide provider directory of Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) endpoints
could significantly improve access to health information by streamlining how organizations
connect. Rather than a single, centralized resource, we recommend a federated model that builds
on regional HIEs’ infrastructure, expertise, and relationships.
Contexture already maintains up-to-date connections with local providers, including an inventory
of the EHR endpoints used by our data senders and the types of data each endpoint supports.
Access to longitudinal data is essential for targeting resources and designing value-based
interventions. By establishing a national directory using state or regional infrastructure, we can
minimize redundant efforts, accelerate technical onboarding, and enable more efficient and
reliable data exchange across the country which will support a more strategic and effective
resource allocation.
Basic provider contact, and endpoint information should be made freely accessible to ensure broad
participation and equitable access. Value-added features such as real-time endpoint status, FHIR
capability statements and data availability indicators could be offered as premium, fee-based
enhancements. This approach would help fund ongoing directory maintenance, endpoint testing,
and quality assurance, while ensuring sustainability and reducing financial pressure on smaller
providers. HIEs are well-positioned to deliver these advanced services, including facilitating
connections, monitoring endpoint performance, and supporting interoperability.
Contexture also recommends a shared governance structure for the national directory with
ASTP/ONC providing policy oversight, HIE networks managing daily operations, and national
associations contributing their clinical expertise and guidance. This distributed approach would
avoid vendor lock-in and leverage the trusted infrastructure and relationships already in place,
ensuring the directory remains secure, and responsive to the needs of the healthcare community.
We suggest CMS and ASTP/ONC consider:
• Establishing a federated national provider directory model that builds upon existing trusted
regional networks to minimize redundant efforts and accelerate implementation.
• Advancing point-of-care data access nationwide by investing in a federated national
provider director that builds on existing state and regional HIE infrastructure.
• Establishing funding mechanisms to sustain essential directory functions, through a
combination of federal support and fee-based services, while enabling advanced features
to be offered through cost-recovery or subscription-based models.
3

II. CMS and ASTP/ONC requested feedback on which data sets would be most
valuable if made available through CMS APIs, what barriers currently hinder
access to these data sources, and what steps CMS can take to encourage
developers to create digital health solutions and integration.
A. FHIR Adoption for Interoperability *PR-5, PR-8, PR-10, TD-14, TD-15, VB-15.
The healthcare industry faces a significant disconnect between the promise of FHIR APIs as the
future standard for health data exchange and their limited real-world adoption, particularly in
complex multi-stakeholder environments like those in Colorado and Arizona. Contexture, and
other high-performing HIEs, acknowledge that healthcare data contributors—including hospitals,
clinics, and labs—have not prioritized FHIR-based exchange systems. Instead, these healthcare
providers continue to rely on established, widely adopted standards such as HL7 v2, CCD, and IHE
profiles, which have proven to be the backbone of scalable and timely data exchange across
various care settings.
This pattern of limited FHIR adoption is particularly pronounced among behavioral health, long
term care, and home and community-based services, many of whom were excluded from federal
incentives under the HITECH Act. Despite slow adoption of FHIR, high-performing HIEs, such as
Contexture, are already delivering many of the capabilities that FHIR envisions, often with broader
reach, greater usability, and more operational flexibility. These existing systems provide
longitudinal patient records aggregated from multiple providers with near real-time updates that
support point-of-care decision-making, along with event-based services such as Admission,
Discharge, and Transfer (ADT) notifications delivered in real time or batched to fit specific clinical
workflows for proactive care coordination.
To advance national interoperability goals, CMS should recognize the critical role that high-
performing HIEs play in complementing the adoption of FHIR. Federal policy should support a
layered approach that leverages the strengths of both: encouraging FHIR adoption where it adds
value, while investing in the mature, standards-based systems HIEs operate today. This strategy
ensures that all providers, regardless of technical maturity, can meaningfully participate in data
exchange.
B. Patient Access APIs *PR-5.
From Contexture’s experience, several categories of APIs hold significant promise for driving
innovation and improving support for both patients and providers by making health data more
accessible and actionable. Standardized Patient-Generated Health Data (PGHD) APIs, including
those from wearables and remote monitoring devices, would provide a more comprehensive view
of patient health. Additionally, expanding and standardizing Public Health Reporting APIs would
simplify provider compliance, and the inclusion of Clinical Decision Support, Patient
Matching/Identity Resolution, and Consent Management APIs would further empower patients and
providers, improve data linkage, and enhance patient control over data sharing.
C. Data Access and Exchange *PR-8, PR-9, PR-10, PC-14, TD-3, VB-14.
Access to real-time or near real-time eligibility and encounter data is critical for effective care
coordination and reducing administrative burden. However, HIEs like Contexture cannot provide
4

these insights unless health plans, including Medicaid and Medicare Advantage plans, are actively
contributing data.
With consistent access to eligibility, encounter, and authorization data from payers, regional HIEs
offer powerful tools supporting care navigators and reduce information gaps at the point of care.
CMS can encourage health plans to share this data through state and regional HIEs. Doing so
would strengthen local interoperability, reduce duplicative infrastructure investments, and deliver
timely, actionable insights to providers and care teams working across diverse clinical and
community settings.
Equally important is the need for a federal policy that prioritizes the adoption of modern identity
solutions for authenticating and authorizing access to patient data. Strong identity management is
essential to ensure that only authorized individuals can access sensitive health data at the point of
care. Solutions, such as multi-factor authentication and dynamic authorization frameworks are
crucial for enabling care navigators to securely access real-time eligibility status, prior
authorization decisions, and encounter histories in a HIPAA and state privacy law compliant
manner. By mandating standardized, interoperable identity systems, CMS can enhance care
coordination and improve outcomes for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, while upholding the
highest standards of data security and patient trust.
We suggest CMS and ASTP/ONC consider:
• Supporting state-directed investments that align mature standards with Medicaid and
public health priorities, ensuring that implementation leverages existing infrastructure and
delivers measurable outcomes.
• Mandating all federally regulated healthcare APIs are open and standardized to promote
consistency and interoperability.
• Requiring support for bulk data capabilities in APIs to accelerate data exchange and ensure
alignment among health IT systems.
• Expanding CMS APIs to include data types that empower providers to improve care quality,
efficiency, and patient experience.
• Requiring modern identity solutions for authentication and authorization of patient data.
III. CMS and ASTP/ONC requested feedback on the Trusted Exchange Framework
and Common Agreement (TEFCA) regarding necessary changes needed and
the evolving role of HIEs within broader data exchange frameworks.
A. TEFCA Barriers and Limitations *PC-10, PC-11, PR-6, PA-1, TD-6, TD-14.
Despite meaningful progress toward nationwide interoperability, health information exchanges
(HIEs) continue to encounter challenges in achieving seamless data sharing across the healthcare
ecosystem. Persistent issues such as entrenched data silos, inconsistent data standards, and
varying technical capabilities among providers continue to limit the full potential of health data for
patients, providers, and payers.
The Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement (TEFCA) represents a step forward in
establishing a national framework for health information exchange. It lays a foundation for
interoperability by enabling point-in-time, document-based exchange across networks. This is an
5

important advancement, and HIEs are well-positioned to support and bolster TEFCA’s
implementation by extending its reach and enhancing its impact.
However, as TEFCA continues to evolve, there are inherent limitations to national networks and
therefore are opportunities to address critical, state-specific, and community-based data sharing
needs that are essential to achieving CMS’ goals of improved care coordination, cost reduction,
and better outcomes for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. HIEs, with their deep local roots
and proven capabilities, can help bridge these gaps.
Key areas where HIEs complement and enhance TEFCA include:
• Real-Time and Event-Based Exchange: HIEs offer real-time, event-driven data exchange,
such as emergency department alerts and post-discharge notifications, which are vital for
timely interventions and care coordination.
• Support for Diverse Use Cases: Many HIEs already support public health, behavioral
health, and non-medical health related data exchange, which are essential for addressing
the needs of critical populations and advancing improved health outcomes.
• Expanded Use Case Support: HIEs facilitate HIPAA-permitted uses beyond treatment,
including operations and payment, enabling broader support for quality improvement,
population health, and value-based care.
• Proactive Notifications: HIEs provide push-based alerts like ADT notifications, which are
crucial for managing care transitions and reducing avoidable utilization.
• Community Governance and Trust: HIEs are often governed by and accountable to local
stakeholders, fostering trust and responsiveness to regional needs—especially in rural and
underserved areas.
• Complex Consent Management: HIEs have experience navigating nuanced and important
patient consent requirements, such as state-based requirements and federal requirements
such as 42 CFR Part 2, enabling more inclusive and compliant data sharing.
In this way, HIEs serve as a vital complement to TEFCA and other national networks, helping to
ensure that the national framework is not only robust but also responsive to the diverse and
dynamic needs of communities across the country, and that all data exchange via intermediaries
such as HIEs and national networks honor patient data sharing wishes.
B. High-Performing HIE Capabilities in support of TEFCA *PC-10, PC-11, PR-6, PA-1,
TD-6, TD-14.
While national frameworks like TEFCA have laid important groundwork for nationwide
interoperability, regional HIEs such as Contexture bring critical additional value to the healthcare
community. With deep roots in the communities they serve, HIEs offer nimble, locally responsive
infrastructure that aligns closely with state priorities and the needs of diverse populations.
Contexture works together with Medicaid programs, public health agencies, and community
organizations to deliver a range of impactful services. Initiatives like Electronic Clinical Quality
Measures (eCQMs), the Arizona Healthcare Directives Registry (AzHDR), a statewide Crisis Bed
Registry and streamlining multiple public health reporting requirements, are examples of how HIEs
can address real-world challenges in ways that are tailored, timely, and effective.
• Electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQMs) are generated for almost 150 healthcare
provider practices to align with alternative payment models in Colorado, to drive quality
improvement and improved healthcare outcomes.
6

• The AzHDR provides individuals with a secure, online way to store and share advance
directives with providers, ensuring that care decisions reflect patient preferences and
reduce unnecessary interventions. This will significantly impact Medicare.
• The Crisis Bed Registry, created in collaboration with Arizona Medicaid and Solari Crisis
and Human Services (the statewide crisis phone line operator) provides real-time visibility
into available crisis facilities and beds across the state—streamlining placement and
improving crisis response.
• Supporting Arizona and Colorado public health data modernization efforts, through serving
as a data intermediary for public health reporting and data exchange, supporting robust
and scalable identity management. Supporting states’ needs is a key area where
Contexture and state and regional HIEs can support data modernization efforts locally and
nationally.
These efforts demonstrate how HIEs are already delivering value and helping to advance the goals
of CMS and ONC. As TEFCA continues to take shape, there is a valuable opportunity to build on
the strengths of both national and regional efforts.
Rather than a one-size-fits-all approach, a layered strategy that integrates TEFCA with the proven
capabilities of HIEs can offer the best of both worlds. HIEs like Contexture are well-positioned to
serve as data intermediaries, simplifying data access for providers and enhancing the reach of
national networks. Many are also ready to connect with Qualified Health Information Networks
(QHINs), further strengthening the national exchange infrastructure.
To support this vision, We suggest CMS and ASTP/ONC consider:
• Leverage HIEs as regional API hubs, building on trusted infrastructure to expand access
and reduce burden.
• Promote a complementary model that aligns national and regional strengths to accelerate
digital health transformation.
By continuing to invest in the capabilities of regional HIEs, CMS can amplify its impact and ensure
that interoperability efforts are both scalable and grounded in the realities of care delivery across
the country.
7

Appendix
Figure 1: Contexture Solutions- Business Lines
Figure 2: Contexture’s Success – Key HIE Data Metrics
8

Figure 3: Contexture’s Client Testimonies
Dr. Carroll, CMO of ACO Partners, shared a compelling example of how our Notifications benefit
both providers and patients. One patient, who frequently visited the hospital emergency
department two to three times a week, was identified through the Contexture notification system
and successfully engaged by their ACO team. By directing the patient to a lower-cost urgent care
center when appropriate, they significantly reduced the patient's overall need for urgent treatment
and associated costs. This proactive approach exemplifies their commitment to providing "the right
care in the right place at the right time." Most importantly, patients truly appreciate the improved
care and convenience. “In the first two years that ACO Partners connected to and began receiving
data from Contexture, the physician-centric organization saw $2.1 million in savings — after its
service costs were subtracted — when managing its patient population of approximately 58,000.”
-Dr. Andre Carrol, CMO, ACO Partners
“An unexpected benefit of the Arizona HIE service, Contexture, is the significant improvement in
staff scheduling. Arizona Home Care sends nurses and professionals to patients' homes daily.
Before receiving Contexture's notifications, staff often arrived at a patient's home only to find the
patient at the hospital, resulting in inefficient travel and uncompensated visits. With these
notifications, staff can reschedule visits in advance, saving valuable time and resources.” -Jason
Smidt, CIO, Arizona Home Care
Through Contexture Notifications, Horizon Health and Wellness receives notifications when high-
needs patients are admitted, discharged, or transferred from the hospital. Dr. Karst admits that he
was “shocked to learn how many of our patients were spending so much time in hospitals. We
knew we had to do something about it. Contexture has already helped us cut hospital admissions
in half for [our] highest users.” -Dr. Fred Karst, COO, Horizon Health and Wellness
“Hands-down, Contexture has been of monumental importance in helping our organization
improve its [electronic clinical quality measure] eCQM results. [Contexture] has provided
technical expertise, data and root cause analyses, as well as simple understandable and
actionable explanations, to help improve our eCQM results and is indeed a valuable partner for
our organization.” -Dr. Savita Ginde, Boulder Valley Health Center.
9