Submitted via www.regulations.gov
June 16, 2025
Dr. Mehmet Oz Dr. Thomas Keane
Administrator Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (ASTP)
Department of Health and Human Services National Coordinator for Health IT (ONC)
Attention: CMS-0042-NC Department of Health and Human Services
2500 Security Boulevard 200 Independence Avenue, SW
Baltimore, MD 21244 Washington, DC 20201
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem (CMS-0042-NC)
Dear Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane:
The Association of American Medical Colleges (the AAMC) welcomes this opportunity to comment on
the Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem, 90 Fed. Reg. 21034 (May 16, 2025), issued
by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy
and Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ASTP/ONC).
The AAMC is a nonprofit association dedicated to improving the health of people everywhere through
medical education, health care, biomedical research, and community collaborations. Its members are 160
U.S. medical schools accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education; 12 accredited Canadian
medical schools; nearly 500 academic health systems and teaching hospitals, including Department of
Veterans Affairs medical centers; and more than 70 academic societies. Through these institutions and
organizations, the AAMC leads and serves America’s medical schools, academic health systems and
teaching hospitals, and the millions of individuals across academic medicine, including more than
210,000 full-time faculty members, 99,000 medical students, 162,000 resident physicians, and 60,000
graduate students and postdoctoral researchers in the biomedical sciences. Through the Alliance of
Academic Health Centers International, AAMC membership reaches more than 60 international academic
health centers throughout five regional offices across the globe.
The AAMC applauds CMS and ASTP/ONC for their efforts to advance interoperability and improve the
effective and responsible adoption of technology to empower patients and improve their health. We share
the agencies’ commitment to ensuring that patients and clinicians have the increased ability to access
electronic health information to make informed health decisions through secure and seamless exchange of
data. The focus of efforts to improve interoperability should be on what is needed for high quality clinical
management of patients receiving care from providers as they move through the health care system. At
the same time, it is critical to also protect the privacy and security of patient health information.
Many of the AAMC’s member institutions were early adopters of electronic health record (EHR)
technology; they have helped to pioneer its development and use and are committed to providing quality
care using these systems. They are committed to broadly adopting evidence-based, clinically effective

Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane
June 16, 2025
Page 2
digital capabilities to support patient care and experience. Our comments in response to the request for
information on the state of data interoperability and broader health technology infrastructure follow.
REDUCE BURDENS THAT PREVENT BROADER ADOPTION OF DIGITAL HEALTH
Make COVID-19 Telehealth Waivers and Flexibilities Permanent to Reduce Uncertainty, Encourage
Continued Investment, Improve Patient Access, and Prevent Unintentional Chilling Effect on Digital
Health Innovation
Unless Congress acts, starting October 1, 2025, CMS will apply geographic limitations and limitations on
the site of service where Medicare patients may receive telehealth services. The AAMC recognizes that
CMS may not have the authority to waive these statutory limitations on telehealth services. CMS does
possess the authority, however, to make permanent the waivers and regulatory changes established by
CMS in response to the COVID-19 public health emergency (PHE) that have facilitated the widespread
use of telehealth and other communication technology-based services, and in turn, that improve access to
health care. The AAMC strongly supports these permanent waivers. If coverage of telehealth services is
no longer in jeopardy of expiring, it will spur investment and innovation within the digital health
community.
The AAMC also urges CMS to permanently change its regulations to permit practitioners to use their
enrolled practice location instead of their home address when providing telehealth services from their
home through CY 2025.1 Requiring reporting of practitioner’s home addresses for enrollment is likely to
discourage practitioners from providing telehealth services from their home, limiting access to care.
Additionally, practitioners have expressed privacy and safety concerns associated with enrolling their
home address.
Remove Barriers to Uptake and Sustainability of Interprofessional Consults
In 2019, CMS finalized payment for six CPT® codes to recognize interprofessional consultations (99446,
99447, 99448, 99449, 99451, 99452). (83 FR 59452, 59491, November 23, 2018) The AAMC and its
member health systems have found interprofessional consultations utilizing provider-to-provider
modalities and peer-mentored care as an effective way to improve access to care. Patients benefit from
more timely access to the specialist’s guidance and payers benefit from a less costly service by avoiding
the new patient visit with a specialist, not to mention likely downstream costs, when interprofessional
consults take the place of a referral.
CMS requires that providers collect coinsurance from their patients when billing for CPT® codes 99451
and 99452. While the AAMC understands that CMS may not have the authority to waive coinsurance for
CPT® codes 99451 and 99452 or GIPC5 and GIPC6 under the Medicare fee-for-service program, we
remain concerned that the coinsurance requirement is a barrier to providing these important services for
several reasons. First, given the structure of two distinct codes, patients are responsible for two
coinsurance payments for a single completed interprofessional consultation, which predictably induces
confusion. Interprofessional consultations are often used for patients with new or acute conditions who
are not established within the consulting specialty’s practice and therefore do not have an existing
relationship with the consultant. A coinsurance bill for a service delivered from a provider that is
unknown to the patient could cause them to believe a billing error has occurred. Another barrier is that
1 89 FR 97710, at 97762 (December 9, 2024)

Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane
June 16, 2025
Page 3
Guidance for CPT® code 99452 clarifies that it should be reported by the treating physician/QHP for 16-
30 minutes in a service day preparing the referral and/or communicating with the consultant. We
recommend the guidance should be changed so that the time for these codes includes all the activities
associated with the interprofessional exchange between the treating provider and consulting physician,
including follow-through on the consultant’s recommendations. This clarification would help to expand
the use of these valuable services in the future and ensure from a program integrity standpoint that
patients and payers are realizing the intended value of this service.
Realign Reimbursement Models to Recognize Clinician Effort When Leveraging Digital Health Tools
Leveraging digital health tools with their patients requires clinicians to deliver care that is not included in
traditional fee-for-service reimbursement, which largely values only care that is delivered directly within
a patient visit. Use of digital health tools still require clinicians to manage data inputs, evaluate data
trends, and act on the data to make care referrals, prescribe appropriate therapies, and communicate
information back to the patient. That care management, as with other care delivered outside of a patient
visit, is not considered reimbursable clinical work in traditional reimbursement models.
There are also issues where CMS does adopt reimbursement codes to encourage physicians to leverage
digital health tools for their patients. For example, remote physiological monitoring (RPM) services
involve the collection and analysis of patient physiological data to develop and manage a treatment plan
related to a chronic and/or acute health illness or condition. It allows patients to be monitored remotely
while in their homes, and for providers to track patients’ physiological parameters (e.g., weight, blood
pressure, glucose) and implement changes to treatment as appropriate. Health care providers and their
patients can experience many benefits from the use of RPM, including reduced readmissions, shortened
hospital stays, improvements in quality of life, and lower costs. These services allow physicians to track
their patients’ health metrics without requiring multiple in-person visits from patients whose schedules
cannot accommodate greater time commitments. Despite these benefits, these services have been
underutilized, in part, due to payment policies.
One of the barriers to bill for RPM services is that for the initial set-up and continued monitoring codes,
monitoring must occur during at least 16 days of a 30-day period. Expenses associated with configuring
systems to capture necessary documentation and the actual clinician time spent documenting time spent
per calendar month greatly outweigh Medicare reimbursement for these services. The 16-day requirement
prevents providers from using these codes when clinical indications are that the patient would require less
than 16 days of monitoring. Additionally, the 16-day minimum threshold for transmitted physiological
data per 30 days undermines the value of time spent coordinating care and delivering needed services to
patients who require monitoring less than 16 days in a 30-day period. Allowing fewer than 16 days of data
transmission by a patient in a given month would greatly increase access to care and promote high value
use.
Additionally, there has been a decrease to the Practice Expense Relative Value Units each year since RPM
services were adopted for the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule in 2019. This means that clinicians who
furnish these services receive less reimbursement to cover the cost of the device, even though the device
price has not decreased. CMS should evaluate opportunities to realign physician reimbursement to
directly compensate providers for the care delivered when they leverage digital health products.

Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane
June 16, 2025
Page 4
Expand Fraud and Abuse Safe Harbors for Supporting Improved Access to Broadband and Digital
Health Tools
In 2020, the HHS Office of the Inspector General (OIG) finalized new safe harbor protections under the
Anti-Kickback Statute (AKS) that set out new opportunities for health care providers to engage and
support patients to improve quality, health outcomes, and efficiency without violating the AKS
prohibition on inducements.2 Specifically, OIG established a new AKS Patient Engagement and Support
Safe Harbor, that allows participants in value-based enterprises to furnish patient engagement tools and
supports to a patient in a target patient population, as well as a pathway for device and medical supplies
manufacturers to provide digital health technology. We have heard from members that this safe harbor
does not allow them to reach all patients, due to its narrow scope to a value-based enterprise for a target
patient population. Additionally, the safe harbor is limited to an aggregate retail value not to exceed $500
(increased to $605 for 20253) and must advance one of five enumerated goals. We have heard concerns
from members that they are still unable to support patients’ access to broadband connectivity to support
use of digital health tools or provide mobile devices to allow patients to use digital health apps without
potentially implicating civil and criminal penalties under the AKS.
Clarify Patients’ Privacy Protections for Digital Health Tools and Applications Not Subject to the
HIPAA Privacy and Security Requirements
The AAMC broadly supports patient access to their own health information, using the digital health
tools and apps of their choice. We are concerned that a patient may not understand that their
information obtained through these apps may be shared with third parties that are under no obligation
to keep that information private. Health information is very personal and there is potential for the
information shared in apps to be used in ways that impact employment, access to affordable health
insurance, or other areas. To date, CMS and ONC rules have not established any patient privacy and
security protections or any standards regarding how the information from a digital health app may be
used. Patients deserve transparency on their privacy rights and the protections they have for their
private health data when they choose to access or exchange their health data through an app,
especially those offered by entities not covered by the HIPAA.
IMPROVE HIGH QUALITY INTEROPERABILITY TO SUPPORT HIGH QUALITY CARE
Prioritize Improving Interoperability of Electronic Health Records (EHRs)
Broad interoperability for all data within the EHR to be accessible for exchange, regardless of format,
across digital health products is a worthy long-term goal to support high quality patient care. In the short
term, CMS and ASTP/ONC should prioritize general provider EHR to EHR interoperability. This
fundamental level of interoperability is still a work in progress – where some members report a high
reliance on their local health information exchange (HIE) to access, exchange, and use electronic health
information (EHI) from providers with different EHR vendors. Providers also have challenges with
interoperable exchange with providers outside of their health system on the same EHR platform.
Improving EHR interoperability is a critical first priority towards high quality health data access and
exchange.
2 85 FR 77684 (December 2, 2020).
3 HHS OIG, Annual Inflation Updates to the Annual Cap on Patient Engagement Tools and Supports Under 42 CFR
§ 1001.952(hh) (last updated October 11, 2024).

Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane
June 16, 2025
Page 5
Empower Patient-Driven Interoperability to Share Clinical Information
Empowering patients to make informed medical decisions based on access to their own health
information will help drive better health outcomes. To achieve this, patient data must be easy to access
and intuitive to exchange. In addition to patient-centered interoperable systems, care navigators are also
critical to help patients use this information to connect with all their providers across EHR platforms.
However, it is important to ensure that there is a clear distinction between interoperability that allows
patients to access and share their own records versus access to business records (i.e., scheduling or
appointment databases). Business records are uniquely tailored to each health system and practice and
contain information that is specific to the management of the business. Providing external access to these
records will not improve patient care. In fact, it may cause confusion because external viewers will not
have access to internal policies and procedures and lack other necessary information to properly utilize
the business records. Furthermore, business records are often evolving and changing, making it even more
difficult for external viewers to use the information in a meaningful way. Health systems and their staff
are best suited to review business records and disseminate information, when appropriate, in a format that
can be easily digestible for external use.
Allow Providers to Control Which Data from Outside Sources, including Digital Health Apps, and
Medical Devices is Valid, Reliable, and Clinically Meaningful to Integrate into the Medical Record
With greater interoperable exchange of health data, providers are concerned that they will not be able to
manage data from outside sources and to ensure that data generated outside of traditional health care
delivery from digital health apps and devices is valid and reliable for clinical use. As more and more data
can be pushed into a provider’s EHR, clinicians will need to be able to efficiently manage signal-to-noise
and discern what is clinically relevant. Clinicians and healthcare systems, as custodians of the legal
medical record, must have the ability to determine which data is ultimately integrated into a patient’s
medical record.
Lead Efforts to Develop an Interoperable National Directory of Healthcare Providers & Services
There is a great need to improve healthcare provider information within health plan directories to ensure
they contain accurate information for patients while reducing the burden on providers to submit and
update the information included. Health plan directories are often the first source used by patients to
identify healthcare providers and check whether a clinician is within their health plan’s network and
taking on new patients. But too often, health plan directories contain outdated or even erroneous
information, frustrating, or even harming patients.4 The AAMC strongly supports efforts to build
stakeholder consensus to inform the future development of a centralized solution to improving health plan
directories to improve patient experience and reduce burden for providers.
Ensuring success of a National Directory of Healthcare Providers & Services (NDH) will require careful
consideration and stakeholder consensus on the following design elements: a core agreement of what
types of “listed entities” (i.e., individuals and groups of providers) should be included in the NDH, a core
set of standardized data elements (including definitions for those elements), and core functionality for
4 R. Pifer, Centene sued over alleged ghost network following member’s death, Healthcare Dive (June 3, 2025).

Administrator Oz and Assistant Secretary Keane
June 16, 2025
Page 6
updating information, including the ability for providers to delegate directory maintenance. Please refer to
our comments to CMS on the Request for Information on an NDH in 2022 for more detail.5
Ensure Any Future Policies to Use Digital Identity Credentials to Access Patient Portals to Mitigate
Potential Unintended Consequences
Currently, patients must create new profiles and login credentials to access each health care provider’s
patient portal, when treated by providers across health systems. This requires the patient to track each
login for each provider relationship and may lead to frustration and challenges accessing their own health
information. Over time, broader digital identity credentials (for example, CLEAR, ID.me, Login.gov, and
other NIST 800-63-3 IAL2/AAL2 CSPs) have entered the marketplace and could be a solution to
reducing burden on patients accessing multiple provider portals. However, the AAMC recommends that
CMS and ASTP/ONC fully vet the benefits and risks of using policy levers to increase adoption of
digital identity credentials. Broad, system-agnostic digital identity credentials could introduce cross-
system vulnerabilities if breached (unlike unique logins for each provider system). Additionally, requiring
use of digital identity credentials could reduce access for those patients unable or unwilling to obtain such
a credential (due to cost, with private marketplace systems, or reduced trust in such systems) as well as
add burdensome costs to health care systems and providers to adopt (through fees set by the companies
that administer them).
Improve Patient Matching Solutions to Improve Patient Safety
Patient matching remains a critically important component of interoperability as providers must be able to
accurately match a patient to his or her data from outside sources (digital health tools, apps, and devices).
Patient matching continues to be a barrier and often requires manual intervention due to incomplete or
inconsistently formatted demographic information that is utilized to match patient records. Matching
errors can lead to adverse events that seriously compromise a patient’s safety. We recommend that CMS
and ASTP/ONC work with stakeholders to explore best practices for patient matching. We support the
ongoing work of ONC and others on identifying patient matching solutions to promote interoperability.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this request for information, and hope that it is the start to
ongoing dialogue with CMS and ASTP/ONC on improving access and use of evidence-based, clinically
relevant technology to improve patient health and well-being. If you have questions regarding our
comments, please feel free to contact my colleagues Phoebe Ramsey (pramsey@aamc.org) and Ki
Stewart (kstewart@aamc.org).
Sincerely,
Jonathan Jaffery, M.D., M.S., M.M.M., F.A.C.P.
Chief Health Care Officer
Association for American Medical Colleges
Cc: David J. Skorton, M.D., AAMC President and Chief Executive Officer
5 AAMC, Comments to CMS Regarding a National Directory of Healthcare Providers & Services (December 6,
2023).