June 12, 2025
Submitted Via Electronic Delivery to Regulations.gov
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
Attention: CMS–0042–NC
P.O. Box 8013
Baltimore, MD 21244–8013
Re: Request for Information; Health Technology Ecosystem
We wish to thank the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) for the opportunity
to submit public comments on their Health Technology Ecosystem Request for
Information. In these public comments, we focus on ways in which CMS could utilize
technologies to enhance patient access, improve interoperability, and streamline identity
management within healthcare systems. By addressing barriers in data availability, identity
federation, and API accessibility, CMS can foster a more efficient, patient-centered digital
infrastructure that reduces costs and simplifies care delivery.
Praia Health is a US-based tech firm that spun out of one of the largest nonprofit health
systems to solve a pressing industry need. We help health systems give patients the same
easy online and mobile tools that have become standard from banks and e-commerce
industries.
Health data is locked in separate systems, forcing patients to re-establish their identity
repeatedly. Providers – big and small – face high costs and technical barriers just to build
basic services, while red tape raises costs and slows down access to care. Rural patients
struggle the most, making even America’s top healthcare services harder to access. TEFCA
has improved identity authentication but lacks the required universal identity federation.
Praia Health recommends a single, verified, federated identity across all healthcare
providers to reduce repeated logins. Universal sign-on should be implemented by
integrating OpenID Connect (OIDC), allowing patients to log in once and access multiple
providers and services. Standardized proxy access support should ensure caregivers can
securely access patient records while defining clear rules for adding, managing, and
canceling proxy relationships.

FHIR should expand beyond data sharing to make more health data actionable (i.e.
enabling appointment booking, secure messaging, consent management, and care
coordination) through standardized APIs. Fair API access must be ensured by restricting
excessive fees and requiring open-access testing environments for healthcare developers.
Response Index
QUESTION PRAIA HEALTH RESPONSE
PC-8A ASTP/ONC should clarify that all data stored about a patient, including
PC-9A derived data, must be made programmatically available in real-time via
PC-9C APIs rather than locked in patient portals.
PC-9B Documentation for API endpoints should be centrally available, and
sandboxes should be rapidly and freely available to support innovation.
PC-10A TEFCA has improved patient data access and incentivized Health IT buyers
to ensure their vendors are TEFCA compliant.
PC-10C TEFCA should expand beyond individual data access to include all user
actions, ensuring data actionability alongside availability.
PC-10E TEFCA lacks identity federation, preventing patients from using a single
credential to access multiple portals. This must be addressed to
streamline access.
PC-10G Currently, FHIR and TEFCA are the only viable methods for digital data
exchange. Paper records are impractical, and HIE access is limited.
PC-13 A clear, consumer-friendly definition of data blocking should be made
available, and all systems handling patient data should include “Data
Blocking Requirements” link, like California’s “Do not sell” policy, enabling
direct complaint filing.
PC-14A Health systems are restricted by their monolithic EMR vendors, as no open
login requirements exist. Adopting OIDC and giving health systems the
ability to select and integrate trusted digital identities.
PC-14B Open digital identity solutions, such as IAL2-backed OIDC CIAM solution,
will drive digitally engaged patients, ease care access, and reduce waste
and fraud from identity confusion.
PC-14C Digital identity solutions must be open, allowing multiple vendors to
compete and provide identity services while preventing EMR vendors from
restricting access. Any digital identity provider must support identity
federation, including EMR vendors. Health systems must be free to add

and select additional IDs using the OIDC standard without vendor
blocking.
PC-3A Currently, non-text data is largely inaccessible via FHIR endpoints, limiting
complete patient record visibility.
PC-3B
PC-3D All data formats (PDF, image, free text) should be made accessible via a
bulk-FHIR “/documents” endpoint to facilitate data availability and
developer innovation.
PR-4 User forms of all types should be API-accessible, eliminating redundant
patient inputs across platforms.
PR-5 Praia Health uses the APIs described in a, c, d, g, and h with its customers
today. Millions already rely on these APIs to access vital care and enhance
patient experiences.
PR-5H Praia Health supports SMART on FHIR for standalone app access; however,
the experience is poor, as EHR vendors add post-login screens that
confuse or directly discourage patients from proceeding, even when the
health system does not want these screens displayed.
PR-9A EMR vendors limit provider capabilities and hold negotiating power over
standards adoption, making certification mandates necessary to enforce
open identity requirements.
PR-9B Mandate that consumers be provided an option via an interface to
disconnect approved applications, and any open identity vendor must
comply with OpenID Connect 2.0.
PA-2 Tie Star-rating bonus points to payer API up-time (> 99.5 %) and full access
of all data (> 95%) via open APIs.
PA-3 A direct requirement with a short transition period should be established to
enforce credential portability across providers and payers, eliminating
login friction, and increasing care completion rates.
TD-1 Offer an “Innovator Fast Lane” that requires access to APIs and sandboxes
within 24 hours to patient portals (like EMRs).
Provide grants that reward rapid innovation that measurably improves
patient experience and patient outcomes.
TD-3A Patients must have a single credential to access all their portals, apps, and
tools, with identity verification easily renewed via IAL2.
TD-3B Security is strengthened through battle-tested open standards like OpenID
Connect 2.0, FIDO 2 Passkeys, and IAL2, reducing implementation risks.

TD-4 ONC certification must require vendors to offer public, no-cost, standards-
based APIs for all data and actions, with proprietary solutions allowed only
when parity is proven.
TD-9A Today each implementation of an API may be slightly different, and it’s
impossible to fully know this unless you start to build against the API.
Require API certification to standardize implementation and guarantee
functionality across vendors.
TD-9B Not all vendors are incentivized to provide open access, which may create
a challenging but necessary transition.
TD-9C API parity should be required, ensuring every health IT function has an
open API. Vendors must add open API end points for new features to
guarantee programmatic access.
TD-9E Bulk data transfer and access to underlying schemas must be mandated,
preventing proprietary restrictions on patient data.
TD-10 ONC Health IT certification 170.315(d)(1) should be updated to mandate
OIDC certification for patient authentication and any relying party
integrated applications.
TD-11 Access to this EHI data is a manual process, without programmatic access
to developers or applications.
TD-11A EHI data exports must be API-driven with defined response times.
TD-11B Automated API-based disclosures should enable automatic response and
allow for difference-since-time exports for full profile updates.
TD-11C Having access to full medical records can enable patient-directed AI use
TD-13 cases, as well as easier data portability between points of care.
TD-18A Restrictions on API access fees, documentation availability, and schema
sharing must be eliminated.
Vendors must be prevented from charging to enable FHIR APIs or using
“scare screens” that discourage patients from completing SMART on FHIR
workflows.
To build a patient-driven healthcare ecosystem, identity federation, open data access, and
fair API policies must be mandated across all digital health platforms. Removing login
barriers, standardizing patient identity, and ensuring unrestricted API availability will
streamline care and reduce costs. Providers and payers must fully support OIDC-based
authentication, bulk-FHIR access, and transparent interoperability. Enforcing
certification standards, fair access policies, and identity portability will create a system

where patients control their data, innovation thrives, and care delivery is frictionless. We
appreciate CMS’ proactive efforts to leverage technology for a more efficient, patient-
centered digital infrastructure.
Sincerely,
Justin Dearborn
Chief Executive Officer
Praia Health, Inc.