June 16, 2025
Subj: CMS-0042-NC
We wish to thank CMS for taking the initiative to seek insights from
stakeholders that can help people access and fully gain the benefits of
digital health products.
Natural Cycles is a Fertility Awareness Based Method (FABM) of
contraception designed specifically with the end-user in mind - a woman
desiring a non-hormonal approach to contraception and/or fertility. Such an
innovation has been evaluated in greater than 20 publications and has
drawn more than 500,000 regular users across the globe.
As awareness has expanded, we have begun to receive many requests
from women for Natural Cycles to be covered by their health insurance
company or Medicaid benefit program similar to all other FDA cleared
methods of contraception.
Our experience to date in making this patient demand a reality has
provided us with a unique vantage point on the barriers to adoption of
digital health products. A quick win for women, the administration and our
healthcare system does not require establishing anything new, but rather
simply enforcing a federal rule already in existence.
Federal Government Enforcement
Specific to innovation in the contraception and fertility area, barriers
exist in the form of lack of insurance coverage despite the language in the
Affordable Care Act requiring commercial insurers and Pharmacy Benefit
Managers to provide coverage to all FDA cleared contraceptive
technologies. Despite dozens of hormonal forms of contraception being
made available on the PBM’s formularies, the PBM’s have not provided

their members formulary access to even one FABM. The federal
government enforcing the ACA contraceptive mandate with PBM’s and
insurers would be helpful to ensure the intent of the ACA contraceptive
mandate is realized.
This quick win would clearly help women today preferring a non-hormonal,
non-invasive and natural approach to contraception. However this would
also help to develop a pathway for future FABM’s and digital health
technologies to gain access through the pharmacy benefit channel.
We thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this important dialogue.
Best regards,
Dan Trodden
Senior Vice President, Market Access
Natural Cycles
daniel.trodden@naturalcycles.com